TOSSUPS - ROUND FIVE
Dennis Haskins Open High School Quizbowl2006 -- UT-Chattanooga
Questions mostly by Tennessee with help from Carol Guthrie, Seth Kendall, Oklahoma, Shawn Pickrell, and UTC
1. It presents two absorption bands centered in the wavelengths 687 and 760 nanometers and can be toxic at elevated
partial pressures. It has fifteen known isotopes, three of which are stable and twelve of which are radioactive. First
discovered by 16 th century Polish alchemist Michael Sendivogius by warming saltpeter, its discovery wasn't formally
published until 1774 by scientist Joseph Priestly. FTP, name this element, the second largest single component of the
earth's atmosphere.
Oxygen
Answer:
2. (UT/SK) Legend has it that his father compelled him to swear at the altar to Ba'al "never to be friend to" the state he

came very close to overwhelming, a process which began when the Saguntines provoked his attack by attacking their
neighboring tribes. He defeated the father of his most famous opponent at the River Ticinus and crushed armies under
Tiberius Sempronius Longus at Trebbia River in 218 BCE. His most famous victory was a double envelopment which
cost the life of Aemilius Paullus two years later, before Fabius Maximus learned to avoid facing him in battle. FTP name
this commander who devastated Rome with his victories at Lake Trasimine and Cannae, but would be defeated at the
Battle of Zama by Scipio Africanus.
Hannibal
Answer:
3.
(OK) This term was coined by Jude Wanniski and theories concerning it resulted in a Nobel Prize in Economics
for Robert Mundell. In keeping with the Laffer Curve, it holds that increased taxation is a detriment to economic trade. It
contrasts with Keynesian views in that it argues against a demand-oriented economy and in favor of one centered on
production. FTP, what is this key component of Reaganomics?
Supply-Side Economics
Answer:
(OK) He renounces his love for the actress Sybil Vane after he is dissatisfied with her performance as Juliet, and
4.
she later commits suicide by swallowing prussic acid. He later becomes addicted to opium and indulges in numerous vices
while he is under the influence of an unnamed "poisonous" French novel. His downfall begins upon meeting Lord Henry
Wotton, but his fate was not sealed until he murders his close friend, Basil Hallward. FTP, name this man, who sells his
soul for eternal youth and whose age and sins are reflected in a painting rather than on his face.
Answer:
Dorian Gray
5.
(SP) Pencil ami paper ready -- tltis is a computation question. FTP what is the measure, in degrees, of each
exterior angle of a polygon with 15 sides? You have 10 seconds to answer.
Answer:
24 degrees
6.
(UTC) In an early caper, he is envied after he finds a Bananarama tape without the case. In another episode, he
starts playing Insult Master after getting tired of Video Ouija. He has also befriended a lump of mold known as "01'
Drippy" and has several imaginary friends including Dewey, Vanessa, and Boxy Brown. He is also a fan of MC Pee
Pants and has the ability to morph into shapes such as an igloo or a hot dog. FTP, identify this friend of Frylock and
Master Shake, member of the Aqua Teen Hunger Force, and ... well, meatball.
Meatwad
Answer:
7.
It took place on July 19 and 20 at the local Wesleyan Methodist Church and was publicized only by a small,
unsigned notice placed in the local newspaper. It drew a crowd of about three hundred people, including forty men,
among them abolitionist Frederick Douglass. No woman felt capable of presiding, so the task fell to James Mott, the
husband of one of the organizers. FTP, identify this 1848 meeting for women's rights held in upstate New York,
organized by Lucretia Mott and Elizabeth Cady Stanton.
Answer:
Seneca Falls Convention
8. (OK) They were officially protected from hunting in 1941, but now face extinction because of a disease which produces
large tumors on the faces of the animals which interfere with feeding and eventually lead to starvation. Black and white,
they are noted for the odor they produce when stressed and for the loud noises they produce while eating. FTP name this
animal, the largest carnivorous marsupial, which inspired one of Warner Brothers' favorite characters.
Tasmanian Devil
Answer:

9. (OK) It explores the reasons for war and the nature of the gods' superiority to humans, especially when Apollo cites
excess population as the reason for the Trojan War. Apollo closes the play with a call for peace, a trait best seen when the
title character spares the life of the Phrygian eunuch. It ends with the title character being ordered to go to Athens to be
absolved of his crime and to marry Menelaus' daughter Hermione, while his friend Pylades marries his sister. FTP, this
describes what play by Euripides which takes place after Aeschylus' The Libation Bearers and before his The Eumenides?
Answer:
Orestes
10. (UT/SK) Among the policies advocated by this nation include its support the exiled Sahrawi Polisario Front and
rejection of Moroccan claim to the administration of Western Sahara. It has the seventh-largest reserves of natural gas in
the world and is the second-largest gas exporter, and it really came into prominence when the National Liberation Front
(FLN) launched a guerrilla war for independence and after nearly a decade of urban and rural warfare, they succeeded in
pushing France out in 1962. FTP, name this North African country, bordered in addition to Morocco by Tunisia in the
northeast, Libya in the east, Niger in the southeast, and Mali and Mauritania in the southwest, whose capital is Algiers.
Answer:
Algeria
11. This church has no ordained clergy. It tries to inspire members and other seekers to re-examine Jesus' parable of the
Good Samaritan and respond to their neighbors' needs around the globe. Its founder grew up facing poor health and
financial hardship which guided her spiritual leanings. Searching for a way to combine the realities oflife with the
spirituality of the Bible, she first published Science and Health in 1875, and this work along with the Bible serve as the A
pastors" of this Church. FTP, name this Christian denomination, founded in Boston in 1879 by Mary Baker Eddy.
Answer:
Christian Science or First Christian Ch urch, Scientist, or Ch urch of Christ, Scientist
12. On February 21, a million troops led by Crown Prince Wilhelm attacked 200,000 French defenders, forcing the French
to retreat the next day. French General Petain ordered that no further retreats would take place and arranged for every
spare French soldier to be brought here. On March 6, the German Fifth Army launched a new attack, advancing 3
kilometers before being stopped in front of Mort Homme Hill. The French held this strategic point until it was finally
secured by the Germans on May 29, and Fort Vaux fell on June 7, after a long siege. FTP, identify this 1916 battle, the
longest of World War 1.
Answer:
battle of Verdun
13. "He was a gentleman from sole to crown, Clean-favoured and imperially slim." And he was "always quietly arrayed,
And he was always human when he talked." "He glittered when he walked." "And he was rich, yes, richer than a king,
And admirably schooled in every grace." FTP, name this titular character of the Edwin Robinson poem who "one calm
summer night, Went home and put a bullet in his head."
Answer:
Richard Cory
14. The periods of these are so natural that some of them are far more accurate than atomic clocks . It was first observed
in 1967 by Cambridge graduate student Jocelyn Bell, but it was Bell's thesis advisor, Anthony Hewish, who shared the
1974 Nobel Prize in Physics for explaining that these were spinning neutron stars. The modern model for these, the
Lighthouse Model, shows two "hot spots" on the surface ofthe star continuously emitting radiation in a narrow
"searchlight" pattern. FTP, name this astronomical object that emits radio radiation in small rapid bursts.
Answer:
Pulsars
15.
(OK) She is the patron of tavern keepers and barmaids, who were usually women in ancient Mesopotamia, and
was responsible for conferring kingship. One of her most famous myths involves the death of her lover Tammuz, whom
she went to retrieve in the underworld, leaving an article of clothing at each of the seven gates before standing naked in
front of Ershkigal, the queen of the realm. She is also responsible for unleashing the Bull of Heaven against Gilgamesh,
after he spurned her. FTP, who is this Akkadian goddess oflove, fertility, and sexuality?
Answer:
Ishtar or Inanna or Astarte

16. Originally billed as a dramma giocoso or "funny drama," the Danish philosoper S0ren Kierkegaard wrote an essay in
in which defends the claim that this opera is the greatest work of art ever made. Its finale has been a captivating
philosophical and artistic topic for many writers including George Bernard Shaw, who in Man and Superman, parodies it.
This opera begins with the titular character trying to seduce a woman, but he winds up killing her father. FTP, name this
opera, the most famous by Amadeus Mozart.
Answer:
Don Giovanni
17. (UTC) Early on in this work, the protagonist's wife attempts suicide by swallowing a bottle of sleeping pi lis . Later,
the protagonist teams up with a man named Faber in an attempt to discredit his occupation, a plan that eventually leads to
his being chased by the Mechanical Hound. The novel's conclusion sees that firefighter protagonist, Guy Montag, join a
group of underground intellectuals who assign him the duty of memorizing the Biblical book of Ecclesiastes. FTP,
identify this work by Ray Bradbury whose title is the temperature at which books burn.
Fahrenheit 451
Answer:
18. (OK) It is believed that they first diverged from gnetophytes in the late Triassic and they first appear in the fossil
record in the Jurassic. The Cornquist classification system was used extensively following its introduction by Arthur
Cronquist in 1981, but it has since been replaced by the APG, which is believed to reflect phylogeny better. FTP, what are
these types of plants, distinguished from gymnosperms because they produce flowers?
Answer:
Angiosperms (prompt on flowering plants or equivalents before flower is said)
19. Introduced in 1968 by Proctor & Gamble, according to the patent, they were invented by Alexander Liepa of
Montgomery, Ohio. Their packaging was designed by Fred Baur, and comedian Mitch Hedberg has quipped that the
company intended to package tennis balls, but a bunch of potatoes showed up instead. Its famous logo depicts a stylized
representation of a man with a large moustache and parted bangs. FTP, name this edible product, known for its slogan
"Once you pop, you can't stop."
Answer:
Pringles potato chips
20.
His official biography states that he was born at Mount Paektu on Feb. 16, 1942, though many believe it was in
1941 in Russia. In 1969 he was appointed deputy director of the Propaganda and Agitation Department of his country ' s
Worker's Party, within which he led the "Three Revolution Team" campaigns. Later, he was often referred to as the
"Party Center", due to his growing influence over the daily operations of the Party. When he was made a member of the
Seventh Supreme People's Assembly in February 1982, it had become clear to international observers that he was the heir
apparent to succeed his father as the supreme leader of the DPRK. FTP, name this "ronery" political leader, who in 1994,
became leader of North Korea.
Kim Jong-il
Answer:
21.
Its first director, William Ruckelshaus, returned after a ten-year break in 1983. The administrator of this agency,
while not technically a cabinet member, is often given the benefits of a cabinet position. Created in 1970, it maintains 10
regional offices and 17 laboratories across the USA. Major programs it administers include the Energy Star and
Superfund projects. FTP, name this agency, currently led by Stephen Johnson, which monitors and enforces pollution
control laws.
Environmental Protection Agency or EPA
Answer:
22.
With lyrics by James Rado and Gerome Ragni and music by Galt MacDermont, its original cast previewed a few
performances of it at a go-go club called The Cheetah. It premiered off-Broadway as the inaugural performance of the
Public Theater, on October 17, 1967, and moved to the Biltmore Theater on Broadway on April 29, 1968, where it stayed
for 1,472 performances. Subtitled "The American Tribal Love/Rock Musical," it proved controversial due to its on-stage
nudity. FTP, name this musical which gave us such songs as "Good morning, Sunshine" and "Aquarius."
Answer:
Hair

BONI - ROUND FIVE
Dennis Haskins Open High School Quizbowl2006 -- UT-Chattanooga
Questions mostly by Tennessee with help from Carol Guthrie, Oklahoma, Shawn Pickrell, and UTe

I. Answer these related questions about pre-revolutionary war America, FTPE.
A. Officially known as the "Duties in American Colonies Act of 1765" it required all legal documents, permits,
commercial contracts, newspapers, pamphlets, and playing cards in the American colonies to be taxed.
Answer:
Stamp Act
B. In the wake of the passage of the Stamp Act these organizations sprang up throughout the colonies to resist and protest
the tax.
Answer:
Sons of Liberty
C. When Massachusetts asked for a general meeting to address the Stamp Act, nine colonies sent representatives to a
Stamp Act Congress held at Federal Hall in October of 1765 in what colony?
Answer:
New York
2. Answer these questions concerning chemical elements FTPE:
A. This semi-metal has 20 known isotopes, all of which are radioactive. It has atomic number 85.
Answer:
Astatine
B. This nonmetal with atomic number 53 has a lustrous dark-violet or gray color and is used in antiseptics.
Answer:
Iodine
C. This silvery-gray metal is used in control rods in nuclear reactors . It has atomic number 48.
Answer:
Cadmium
3. (UT/JK) Name these memorable films about high school students FTPE.
A. Written by Saturday Night Live writer Tina Fey, this 2004 film focuses on Cady Heron, a girl who learns the horrors of
high school clique culture, especially from The Plastics. Stars include Rachel McAdams and Lindsay Lohan.
Mean Girls
Answer:
B. One can learn a lot from Matthew Broderick, this film's title character, including how to fake out one's parents, how to
enjoy a school day in the city of Chicago, and how not to turn back the odometer of a 1961 Ferrari 250 GT California.
Answer:
Ferris Bueller's Day Off
C. Richard Dreyfuss, Ron Howard, Harrison Ford, and Wolfman Jack appear in this 1973 George Lucas film about a
group of California teens on the last night of summer. Its tagline asked the memorable question, "Where were you in '62?"
Answer:
American Graffiti
4. Identify these works by Albert Camus [cam-MOO}, FTPE.
A. The Cure's song "Killing an Arab" is based on this novel, about the misanthropic Mersault who can't CIY at his
mother's funeral.
Answer:
The Stranger
B. In this novel, the coastal town of Oren is shut down and quarantined because of a mysterious pestilence. The quarantine
is led by Dr. Rieux.
Answer:
The Plague
C. Jean-Paul Sartre regarded this 1956 novel it as Camus' greatest work of fiction. Set in Amsterdam, it consists of a
series of monologues by self-proclaimed 'judge penitent' Jean-Baptiste Clamence as he reflects upon his life to a stranger.
Answer:
The Fall
5. (10) Peter and the Wolfis one of the most beloved 20 th century orchestral pieces. First, FTP, who composed it?
Answer:
Sergei Prokofiev
As you may know, different characters in Peter and the Wolf are "created" in the piece by a different musical instrument
or group of instruments. FTPE:
(10) What double-reed instrument is associated with the duck?
Answer:
Oboe
(10) Three of these instruments are used to represent the wolf.
Answer:
French horn(s) [prompt on horn]

6. For five points each or 30 if you get all five, name the five pillars ofIslam. (Moderator: accept equivalents)
Answers: I) Shahada or statement of faith or uttering "There is no God but God. I bear witness that Muhammed is
the Messenger of God." or stating there is no god other than Allah, and Muhammed is his messenger"
2) Salat or 5 daily prayers
3) Zakat or almsgiving or religious tax or giving to the poor
4) Sawm or fasting at Ramadan [prompt on fasting]
5) Hajj or pilgrimage to Mecca
7.
(SP) They say absolute power corrupts absolutely. Here are three cases in point. FTPE, name these dictators:
A. In the I 970s, who named himself a Professor of Geography and King of Scotland in between eating pieces of his
Ugandan political opponents?
Answer:
Idi Amin
B. What last name was shared by "Baby Doc" and "Papa Doc," the father-son combo that ruled Haiti?
Answer:
Fran90is (Papa Doc) and Jean-Claude Duvalier (doo-vah-LEE-ay)
C. What former president robbed the Philippines blind but may be better remembered for wife Imelda's shoe collection?
Answer:
Ferdinand Marcos
8.
FTPE, given a list of characters, name the Shakespeare play in which they can be found.
A. Prospero, Miranda, Caliban
Answer:
The Tempest
B. Cassio, Iago, Rodrigo
Answer:
Othello
C. Antonio, Bassanio, Shylock
Answer:
The Merchant of Venice
9.

For five points each, 30 for all 5, name the five nucleotides found in DNA and RNA.
Answer:
Adenine, Cytosine, Guanine, Thymine, and Uracil

10.
The Netherlands and France share ownership of the island of St. Maarten. For 5 pts. per correct answer, identify
the two countries which share these islands:
1. Hispaniola
Answer:
Haiti and the Dominican Republic
2. Tierra del Fuego
Answer:
Chile and Argentina
3. New Guinea
Answer:
Indonesia and Papua Niugini (or Papua New Guinea, if you prefer)
I 1.
Name these Impressionist painters, FTPE:
A. This American artist was very close with Degas and was best known for her mother and child paintings.
Answer:
Mary Cassatt
B. This French man was responsible for the painting that earned Impressionism its name.
Answer:
Claude Monet
C. This painter of Luncheon o/the Boating Party was known for gentle depictions of women, as in his Country Dance.
Answer:
Pierre-Auguste Renoir
12. (UTC) FTPE answer the following about those representing the Eastern Conference at the 2006 NBA All-Star Game:
A. The young Cleveland Cavaliers phenom was the game's MVP.
Answer:
LeBron James
B. This Eastern Conference team was well-represented at the game, as coach Flip Saunders and players Ben Wallace,
Richard Hamilton, Rasheed Wallace, and Chauncey Billups all participated.
Answer:
Detroit and/or Pistons
C. Though the Toronto Raptors have had a lackluster season thus far, one bright spot is the election to the all-star team of
this Toronto power forward.
Answer:
Chris Bosh

13. (CG) Samuel Alito is the newest justice to take a seat on the Supreme Court. Can you name the other 8 current
Supreme Court justices? You'll get 5 pts. for one, 10 pts. for 3, 15 pts. for 4,20 pts. for 5, 25 pts. for 6, or 30 for all 8.
Answer:
Antonin Scalia, Clarence Thomas, Ruth Bader Ginsburg, John Paul Stevens,
Anthony Kennedy, David Souter, John Roberts, Jr., Steven Breyer
14.
I will name a work by an American winner of the Nobel Prize in Literature, you name the author for 10 pts. I'll
give you a 2 nd work for 5 pts. You may guess after each work.
1. 10 pt: Cass Timberlane
5 pt: Main Street
Answer:
Sinclair Lewis
2. 10 pt: The Reivers
5 pt: The Sound and the Fury
Answer:
William Faulkner
3. 10 pt: Sula
5 pt: Beloved
Answer:
Toni Morrison
15.
(OK) Comets have long been objects of fascination and terror for humans. FI0PE, show how much you've been
paying attention to the night sky and identify these comets.
A. Possibly trapped sometime in the 1970s and broken apart by tidal forces in 1992, this comet discovered in 1993 was
the first to be seen orbiting an object other than the Sun. In 1994 it slammed into Jupiter over a 6-day period.
Answer:
Comet Shoemaker-Levy 9 or Comet SL9 or D/ 1993 F2
B. Observations of this comet, which was discovered at a much greater distance than is normal, revealed a third tail
composed of sodium. It was visible for just over 18 months from 1996-97, breaking the previous record ofthe Great
Comet of 1911.
Answer:
Comet Hale-Bopp or C/ 1995 01 (prompt on Great Comet of 1997)
C. Its tail was determined to be at least 3.8 AU long after the Ulysses probe unexpectedly crossed it. The first known to
emit X-rays, it was dubbed the Great Comet of 1996 when it temporarily upstaged the much-anticipated Hale-Bopp.
Answer:
Comet Hyakutake or C/ 1996 B2
(UT/JK) Pencil and paper ready: a cyclist rides from point A to point B in one hour and then from point B back
16.
to point A in two hours. The path between point A and point B is perfectly straight, and the distance between the two
points is 3 miles. FTPE, answer the following, ten seconds per part:
A. What is the displacement of the cyclist?
0 (He is back where he started.)
Answer:
B. What is the average speed ofthe cyclist in terms of miles per hour?
Answer:
2 miles per hour (The cyclist travelled 6 miles in 3 hours, so 6/3 = 2.)
C. There is a path connecting point B to another point C that is directly north of point B. That path is perfectly straight
and 4 miles long. If the cyclist is at point A, how many miles away is he from point C?
Answer:
5 miles (The third point creates a right triangle with two legs of known value. Solve for the
hypotenuse using a method such as the Pythagorean theorem.)
17.
(OK) Identify each of the following plays by Henrik Ibsen Fl OPE.
A. Among the characters are the Strange Passenger, whom many think could be Lord Byron; and the Lean Man, who is
probably the Devil. Other than the title character, perhaps the most familiar is the Dwarven mountain king, thanks to the
accompanying orchestral suite composed by Edvard Grieg.
Peer Gynt
Answer:
B. At the end of this play, the title character, Nora, leaves her husband, Torvald, after she realizes that he is not as noble as
she had previously thought. This ending was so scandalous to Victorian sensibilities, that Ibsen was often required to
submit an alternative ending in order to see the play staged.
Answer:
A Doll's House or Et Dukkehjem
C. The title character of this play causes much trouble, first by forcing her husband to purchase a large home he cannot
afford and which she does not really want, then by causing strife between Ejlert and Mrs. Elvsted, and, in the end, giving
Ejlert a pistol to shoot himself with after having burned his manuscript.
Answer:
Hedda Gabler
18.
Answer these questions about the Protestant Revolution in France, FTPE.

I. What term was used to designate French people who adhered to Calvinistic Protestantism?
Huguenots
Answer:
2. Name the French king, first of the Bouron dynasty, who converted from Protestantism to Catholicism in order to ascend
to the throne.
Henry IV
Answer:
3. Name the 1598 edict issued by King Henry IV which provided for toleration of Protestantism in France.
Answer:
Edict of Nantes
19.
Answer these questions from Norse mythology FTPE.
A. Also called Gotterdammerung, this is the term for the final battle that will end the world.
Ragnarok
Answer:
B. This guard is the god of Bifrost and will sound the signal horn to the Aesir at the beginning of Ragnarok.
Heimdall
Answer:
C. On the day of Ragnarok, this god's chains will break and he will lead the giants into battle against the gods.
Answer:
Loki
20.
(JK) IdentifY the following about mathematical sets FTPE.
[10] If S is a subset of A but S is not equal to A, then S is called this kind of subset.
proper subset (accept strict subset)
Answer:
[10] A set S is this if the boundary of S is a subset of S. When representing an interval that is this, square brackets are
usually used.
Answer:
closed
[10] Given that a set is a subset of the real numbers, this is defined as the union ofa set and all its accumulation points.
Answer:
closure
21.
Let's spice things up by having you identifY these spices and herbs from clues, FTPE.
A. A flowering plant in the family Apiaceae, its seeds are a main ingredient in Indian curries and in Mexican food.
Answer:
Cumin
B. Derived from the flower of the Crocus sativus, its flower's three stigmas and parts of its style are often dried and used
in cooking as a seasoning and colouring agent. It has for decades been the world's most expensive spice by weight.
Answer:
Saffron
C. Also known as Albahaca, St. Joseph's Wort, this herb is one of the main ingredients in pesto.
Basil
Answer:

