DENNIS HASKINS OPEN HS QUIZBOWL 2001 - UTe
TOSSUPS - ROUND 6
Questions mostly by Paul Tomlinson, Iowa State University
1.
He never completed high school, and applied to the Academy of Fine Arts in Vienna but was rejected.
He joined the Bavarian Army during World War I but never made it past private first class. He was imprisoned
in 1923 after a failed putsch (poo-CH) against the Weimer (VI-mar) Republic; before his release in 1924 he
wrote his manifesto, Mein Kampf FTP name this man who became chancellor of Germany and plunged it into
World WarTI.
Answer: Adolf Hitler
2.
In the tropical Pacific, trade winds generally drive the surface waters westward. The surface water then
becomes progressively warmer as it travels westward because of its longer exposure to solar heating. This is
observed when the easterly trade winds weaken, allowing warmer waters of the western Pacific to migrate
eastward and eventually reach the South American coast. The cool nutrient-rich seawater normally found along
the coast of Peru is replaced by warmer water that is depleated of nutrients, resulting in a dramatic reduction in
marine fish and plant life. FTP name this weak, warm current appearing annually around Christmas time along
the coast of Ecuador and Peru and lasting only a few weeks to a month or more.
Answer:
El Nino
3.
Born in Zambia, she fled to England with her family to escape political unrest. She had dreams of
pursuing a dancing career but an injury at age 16 brought that to an end. She still had desires to perform and
was soon cast as the lead in Flirting. She then studied anthropology at Cambridge and between semesters
landed a spot in Interview with the Vampire with Tom Cruise. She has gone on to star in Besieged and Beloved.
FTP, name this actress whose greatest success has been with her movie Mission Impossible 2.
Answer:
Thandie Newton
4.
This neurotransmitter is released from certain cells upon tissue injury or in conjunction with certain
antibodies. It can dilate capillaries and lead to edema, hives, and itching in excess. FTP, name this compound
that can be combated by certain allergy medications.
Answer: histamine
5.
This novel features the creepy snob Lady Catherine de Bourgh. Although there are several courtships in
the novel- such as Lydia and Wickham's elopement and Bingley's pursuit of Jane - the true centerpiece is the
tangled romance of Elizabeth and Darcy. FTP, what is this novel featuring the five Bennett sisters, written by
Jane Austen?
Answer: Pride and Prejudice
6.
Like cellulose, it is a nitrogen-containing polysaccharide. It can be found in the cell walls of some fungi.
The cuticles of some invertebrates are also composed of this tough substance, which is most commonly seen
comprising the exoskeletons of arthropods. FTP, what is this substance?
Answer: chitin
7.
He was the youngest member of the Continental Congress, and was sent to the Constitutional
Convention in 1787 where he drafted the Virginia Plan. He was one of the three essayists that contributed to
The Federalist. He served in the U. S. House of Representatives, and as Secretary of State under Thomas
Jefferson. For ten points, name this man who was President of the United States during the War of 1812.
Answer: James Madison
8.
His metaphysics can be seen in the treatise On Being and Essence. From his teacher Albertus Magnus,
he came to believe that reason and faith can be harmonious, and he tried to reconcile Aristotle's ideas with
Christianity. FTP, what Dominican wrote Summa Theologica?
Answer: St. Thomas Aquinas

9.
Gottfried Burger, Reinhold Lenz, and Heinrich Wagner were major figures in the school, which took its
name from a play by Maximillian Klinger. In opposition to neoclassical and enlightenment thought, this
movement emphasized natural feeling and energetic individualism. Goethe and Schiller also produced works in
what style, whose name, FTP, translates as "Storm and Stress."
Answer: Sturm und Drang (accept early Storm and Stress)
10.
The early Christian theologian Lactantius described this man's sister, Temeste, as the only woman
capable of understanding philosophy. A bit of a philosopher himself, he moved from his hometown of Samos
to the study under Anaximander. Briefly a prisoner of war in Persia, upon returning to Europe he founded a
mystical, vegetarian mathematical brotherhood at Croton. FTP, who created a formula that says that, for a
right-angled triangle, the square on the hypotenuse is equal to the sum of the squares on the other two sides?
Answer: Pythagoras of Samos (or Pythagoras of Croton)
11.
QUOTE: "I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness, starving hysterical naked,
dragging themselves through the negro streets at dawn looking for an angry fix." The work that is so begun was
declared obscene due to its explicit depiction of homosexual activity. For ten points, name this debut and most
famous work of Beat poet Allen Ginsberg.
Answer: Howl
12.
The initial opponents were King Henry VI of England and Richard Plantagenet. The first major battle
was at St. Albans in 1455 and the last major battle was in 1485 at Bosworth Field. It resulted in the founding of
the Tudor dynasty with Henry VII. For ten points, name this series of conflicts between the Houses of
Lancaster and York.
Answer: Wares) of the Roses
13.
Based on a popular line of greeting cards, this group would help visitors and solve mysteries. They used
the Super-Sonic Transporter, which helped them get around quickly and had a laserlike beam that functioned as
a lasso or a ladder. They also had wristwatches that allowed them to communicate with one another, sometimes
holographically. With all this expensive equipment, it's no wonder they couldn't afford pants. FTP name this
group that lived in an oak tree in the middle of a public park under the watchful eye of Superintendent Dinkle
and whose members were Tyg the tiger, Rick the raccoon, Pammy the panda, Digger the mole, Bogey the
Monkey, and Kip the kangaroo.
Shirt Tales
Answer:
14.
In the 1870's he postulated that inertia is only attributable to the interactions of matter with the rest of
the universe; hence, in isolation, matter would have no inertia. Despite this principle, he is best remembered for
his examinations of the properties and speed of sound. FTP, name this Austrian physicist.
Answer: Ernest Mach
15.
The upper right features a crescent moon whose light forms a yellow disk. Bluish hills roll upward from
the bottom left to the middle right. Some spiraling trees rise from the bottom left toward the sky. A little town
lies under the evening horizon filled with 11 lights. FTP, name this 1889 painting by Vincent van Gogh.
Answer: The Starry Night
16.
His murder of one of his wives. Mariamne, was the subject of an 1825 Voltaire play. He also killed
their two children and several members of her immediate family. On the other hand, he built many aqueducts,
theaters, and public buildings, not to mention fortresses. All this helps explain why the Romans thought him a
suitable vassal. FTP name this Roman-appointed king of Judaea, best known for the slaughter of the infants of
Bethlehem.
Answer:
Herod the Great or Herod I; do not accept Herod Antipas

17.
This island's native Ainu population is now a minority dominated by people from islands to the south.
Among its major cities are Kamiiso, Obihiro, Nemuro, and Hakodate, but its famous university and the remains
of the Winter Olympic Village are located in the capital, Sapporo. FTP name this northernmost island of Japan.
Hokkaido
Answer:
18.
When he was fifty years old, he looked at a tree and said, "I shall be like that tree; I shall die from the
top." His prediction came true, for although he lived well into his seventies, he experienced extreme mental
sickness in his last years. For 10 points, name this Anglo-Irish satirist, clergyman, and author, who wrote the
biting "A Modest Proposal" and is most famous for Gulliver's Travels.
Answer: Jonathan Swift
19.
A mixture of several liquids of differing volatilities is placed into the apparatus named for this process.
The mixture is heated and gradually its constituents ascend to the vapor phase. A column above the mixture is
kept at varying temperatures so that the liquids recondense and are collected by the condensers at different
levels. FTP name this common process used in the manufacture of oil and alcoholic beverages.
Answer:
Fractional Distillation
20.
The first state law enforcing this was passed in Maine in 1851. By 1855 13 states had similar laws, but
the Civil War caused many to be repealed. The cause was championed by the WCTU and the ASL, and by
1916,23 states had their own laws enforcing it. For ten points, name this ban that was temporarily made federal
law by the 1919 ratification of the 18 th Amendment and the subsequent Volstead Act.
Answer: Prohibition
21.
She was born in Oxford, MA, in 1821 and first worked as a teacher, founding several free schools in
New Jersey. During the American Civil War she served as a volunteer and after the war supervised a search for
missing soldiers. She was honored with the Iron Cross of Germany for her work in establishing hospitals
during the Franco-Prussi~m War. For ten points, name this founder of the American Red Cross.
Answer: Clara Barton
22.
Born in New York City, he studied law at Columbia University. His earliest notable librettos were for
Rose Marie (1924), by the Bohemian-American composer Rudolf Friml; The Desert Song (1926), by the
Hungarian-American Sigmund Romberg; and Show Boat (1927), by the American Jerome Kern. For ten points,
what American librettist is better known for collaborations like South Pacific?
Answer: Oscar Hammerstein II
23.
In humans this process begins in the mouth when the bolus is formed and pushed via peristalsis down
through the esophagus. Hydrochloric acid and pepsinogen break down the bolus, creating chyme which is then
passed into the small intestine. In the duodenum trypsin, maltase, lactase, sucrase, and bile finish the process
off, allowing for the nutrients present in ingested food to be absorbed by the small and large intestine. FTP
name this common process which should take about an hour in a normal human being.
Digestion
Answer:

BONI - ROUND 6

DENNIS HASKINS OPEN HS QUIZBOWL 2001 - UTe

1.
FTPE name these types of monkey, none of which (alas) is Ben & Jerry's Chunky:
1. With the tamarins, these New World monkeys make up the family Callitrichidae. Their ranks include the

smallest of all monkeys, the pygmy, which only grows to about 6 inches tall.
Answer: marmosets
2. Among the largest monkeys, these residents ofthe forests of Cameroon and other parts of western Africa
resemble baboons except for their vivid red nose, blue cheeks, and red and blue rumps.
Answer: mandrills
3. Found on Borneo, these endangered monkeys of the family Cercopithidae are known for their loud honking
call, but especially for the huge pendulous noses that inspired their name.
Answer: proboscis monkeys
2.

For ten points each, name the American Civil War battles.
1. 30,000 Union soldiers under Gen. Irvin McDowell clashed with 22,000 Confederates under Gen. P. G. T.
Beauregard resulting in a Union retreat to Washington.
Answer: First Battle of Bull Run (accept First Manassas)
2. Grant's capture of this important stronghold in July 1863 after a protracted siege gave the Union control of
the Mississippi.
Answer: Vicksburg
3. The Confederate invasion of Maryland was stopped here in the fall of 1862, giving Lincoln the chance to .
issue the Emancipation Proclamation.
Answer: Battle of Antietam (accept Sharpsburg)
3.
Identify the following about an aspect of Hinduism FTP each.
This god is considered the preserver in the Hindu "Trinity"
Answer: Vishnu
Vishnu is noted for his earthly incarnations, which are called this.
Answer: avatars
This avatar of Vishnu is also known as Shakyamuni and was born as Siddhartha Gautama, but we know him
better by this title.
Answer: Buddha
4.
Answer the following about the novel The Three Musketeers, for five points each.
Name the original 3 musketeers.
Answer: Aramis, Porthos, and Athos
This young Gascon joins them.
Answer: D'Artagnan
The Musketeers serve this king.
Answer: Louis XIII
He wrote The Three Musketeers.
Answer: Alexander Dumas pere (or the elder); don't require to specify but don't accept fils/younger)
5.
Given the definition, name the musical instruments for ten points each.
Used by the ancient Greeks to accompany singers and storytellers, it resembles a small harp.
Answer: lyre
This instrument of the Middle Ages is shaped like a lute or a viol but played by turning a crank attached to a
rosined wheel that causes the strings to vibrate.
Answer: hurdy-gurdy
These small, hollowed pieces of hard wood or ivory are held in the hand by a connecting cord and clicked
together with the fingers to beat time to music.
Answer: castanets

6.
Baseball's regular season begins tomorrow, but the injury report is already grim. Answer the following
FTPE:
a) Wrist surgery may sideline this Red Sox star shortstop (and mainstay of Charlie's fantasy team) till August.
Answer:
Nomar Garciaparra
b) This Braves pitcher's comeback from Tommy John surgery has been slowed by tendinitis, but he may be
ready to rejoin the rotation in late April.
Answer:
John Smoltz
c) This small market team had enough trouble before injuries sidelined their 3 top pitchers - Kris Benson,
Francisco Cordova, and Jason Schmidt
Answer:
Pittsburgh Pirates (accept either part)
7.
FTP each, given the year, name the American author who received the Nobel Prize for Literature. If you
need works you'll get only 5 pts.
(10) 1949
(5) Light in August, The Reivers
Answer: William Faulkner
(10) 1936
(5) Long Day's Journey Into Night, Desire Under the Elms
Answer: Eugene O'Neill
(10) 1962
(5) The Pearl, The Red Pony
Answer: John Steinbeck
8.
For ten points per answer, give the metal element that is extracted from the following minerals.
Bauxite
Answer: Aluminum
Cinnabar
Answer: Mercury
Hematite
Answer: Iron .
9.
Identify the following kings from clues for ten points each.
His reign was the longest in Europe and he was known for saying "I am the state."
Answer: Louis XIV
This Swedish king helped make Sweden a military power in the 16th century and was known as "The Lion of
the North"
Answer: Gustavus Adolphus (accept Gustav II Adolph)
This king of Aragon, called "the Catholic," is known for his capture of Granada which effectively unified Spain.
Answer: Ferdinand V
1O.
FTSNOP name these common computer terms from definitions:
1. (5 pts.) The circuit board that typically contains the primary microprocessor and main memory
Answer: motherboard
2. (5 pts.) A device used for converting digital signals to analog and vice versa for telecommunications
purposes.
Answer: modem
3. (10 pts.) This class of software enables translation of scanned text images into individually coded characters.
Answer: OCR or optical character recognition software
4. (10 pts.) Architects and others generate large blueprints and plans using these devices, which manipulate
pens to draw on paper or clear plastic.
Answer: plotters

11.
Think back to those shows you loved as a child.
10 - This is the planet on which He-Man and the Masters of the Universe takes place.
Answer: Eternia
In Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, Hamato Yoshi fought against Oroku Saki. What were their more familiar
names, FTP each?
Answers: Splinter and Shredder
12.
We all die sooner or later, so I guess it's no surprise that sometimes famous scientists have unusual
stories associated with their demises. FTPE name the following:
a) Just before he died, he requested that a sphere containing a cylinder with the ratio of the two inscribed upon it
be placed on his tomb, which made sense seeing as how he's the guy who first proved that ratio.
Answer: Archimedes
b) His tombstone includes the inscription "S = k log w", which makes sense as that's his law.
Answer: Ludwig Boltzmann
c) His 1794 execution didn't make any sense, but it was during the French Revolution when pretty much
nothing did. Despite pleas from leading French scientists and other countries' leaders, this debunker of the
phlogistion theory was executed because his family included prominent tax collectors.
Answer: Antoine Lavoisier
13.
Identify the following from Paradise Lost FTP each.
This demon and lord of the flies is the chief general and assistant to Satan.
Answer: Beelzebub
This is the chief city of Hell.
Answer: Pandemonium
This angel narrates the story of Satan's revolt and expulsion from Heaven and tells why this world was made.
Answer: Raphael
14.
For ten points each~ identify the following concerning the Vietnam War.
A resolution passed following a reported attack on two U. S. destroyers in this body of water authorized
increased military involvement.
Answer: Gulf of Tonkin
This North Vietnamese attack was launched during the lunar new year.
Answer: Tet Offensive
Controversy rocked the U. S. with the publication of these classified government documents by the New York
Times.
Answer: The Pentagon Papers
15.
Name the following modem artists for ten points each.
This Mexican muralist painted murals for the California School of Fine Arts in San Francisco, the Detroit
Institute of Arts, and Rockefeller Center in New York City.
Answer: Diego Rivera
This wife of Rivera is best known for her colorful self-portraits.
Answer: Frida Kahlo
This enviromentalist sculptor is best known for his large scale works such as "Running Fence" and "Wrapped
Reichstag."
Answer: Christo Javacheff

16.
For the stated number of points, answer these questions about subatomic particles.
5 points. This is the antiparticle that corresponds to an electron.
Answer: positron
10 points. This particle is charge-less and mayor may not have a mass.
Answer: neutrino
15 points. This is slightly broader category that includes all particles that have +_ spin, such as electrons and
neutrinos.
Answer: lepton
17.
Given an American novel, name the state in which the action occurs.
o Pioneers!
Answer: Nebraska
The Awakening
Answer: Louisiana
The Yearling
Answer: Florida
18.
Name these writers associated with American history, for ten points each.
This historian's most noted work deals with the importance of the frontier in American history.
Answer: Frederick Jackson Turner
This French political writer's Democracy in America was one of the earliest studies of the American political
system.
Answer: Alexis Charles Henri Maurice Clerel de Tocqueville
This American author and historian won a Pulitzer Prize for The Guns ofAugust.
Answer: Barbara Tuchman (TOOK-man)
19.
Answer the following FTPE about everyone's favorite state: Nebraska!!!
What word describes Nebraska's one-house legislature?
Answer: unicameral
The name "Nebraska" means flat water and was used by the Oto Indians to refer to what major river in the
state?
Answer: Platte River
What is Nebraska's state nickname?
Answer: the Cornhusker State
20.
Identify the following people associated with the Oedipus myth FTPE.
This blind seer announced Oedipus' guilt, although Oedipus didn't believe him.
Answer: Tiresias
Oedipus killed this king of Thebes on the road before marrying Jocasta.
Answer: Laius
Oedipus had been brought up in Corinth by this regent.
Answer: Polydor

21.
Answer these questions about the Industrial Revolution FTP each.
He invented the spinning jenny in 1770
Answer: James Hargreaves
These new laws required European, especially English, farmers to put fences around their land.
Answer: enclosure laws
He memorized the plans for Richard Arkwright's mills and set up the first American textile plant in 1790.
Answer: Samuel Slater

22.
Answer these questions about the unique governmental structure of the USSR FTP each.
Instead of a President, this official headed the USSR.
Answer: General Secretary of the Communist Party
This advisory board served the function of a cabinet, making most policy in concert with the General Secretary.
Answer: Politburo
This two-chambered body was the closest thing to a legislature in the USSR, but had little power compared to
the Politburo.
Answer: Supreme Soviet

