Tournament-9
Round 4
Tossups
1. The title character of this film runs a charitable foundation for "Little Urban Achievers." In one
scene of this film, the protagonist rubs a pencil over the indentation left on a notepad to discover that
another character has drawn an obscene stick figure. A character in this film is repeatedly told
"you're out of your (*) element" when he inquires about the soiled rug that sets the plot in motion. The title
character of this film has a trophy wife named Bunny, who gets kidnapped. For 10 points, name this Coen
brothers movie starring John Goodman as Walter Sobchack and Jeff Bridges as a slacker named "The
Dude."
ANSWER: The Big Lebowski
026-09-6-04102

2. One musical piece by a composer from this country includes the "Ritual Dance of Fire" movement,
and is titled Love, the Magician. One musical composition set in this country contains the movement
"In the Generalife," and depicts "Nights in the Gardens" of this country. One composer from this
country wrote a ballet about a miller who suspects his wife of adultery, The (*) Three-Cornered Hat.
For 10 points, name this country, the home of Isaac Albeniz and Manuel de Falla (FYE-uh), which was
musically depicted by Albeniz in the piece Iberia.
ANSWER: Kingdom of Spain [or Reino de España]
026-09-6-04103

3. This book describes "Two Witnesses" as "two olive trees, and the two candlesticks." One figure in
this book is told to eat a little book before being given a rod and being told to measure a temple. This
book also introduces a woman dressed in gold and scarlet known as the Mother of (*) Harlots and
named the Whore of Babylon. Other events described in this book include seven angels blowing seven
trumpets after the opening of seven seals. For 10 points, name this book, written by John on Patmos, that
describes the end times and is the final book of the New Testament.
ANSWER: Book of Revelation [or Revelation of St. John; do not accept "Revelations"; do not accept or
prompt on "Book of John"; prompt on The Bible before "written by John" is read; prompt on The New
Testament before "written by John" is read]
015-09-6-04104

4. His study of convicts on Sakhalin Island led to his short story about a felon named Yakov titled
"The Murder." His time in Yalta inspired hsi short story about Dmitry Gurov's and Anna von
Diederitz's love affair, titled "The Lady with the Dog." An impoverished landowner named Waffles
appears in one of his plays about Sonya's relative, (*) Uncle Vanya, which was premiered by the Moscow
Theatre despite the disastrous opening of his play about Arkadina and Trigorin. For 10 points, name this
Russian doctor and playwright of The Seagull and The Three Sisters.
ANSWER: Anton Chekhov
040-09-6-04105

5. This ruler seized power from the provisional government of Manuel Urrutia. Before his success, this
man retreated into the Sierra Maestra following the failure of the Granma expedition. This man led
the 26th of July Movement and a desperate attack on the Mocanda barracks. This man was
responsible for exiling convicts, the mentally ill, and political dissidents from his country in 1980's (*)
Mariel Boatlift. He ousted Fulgencia Batista from power in 1959, and in 2008, he handed control to his
brother Raul. For 10 points, name this longtime Communist dictator of Cuba.
ANSWER: Fidel Castro
030-09-6-04106
Tournament-9 Round 4 Page 1 of 12
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. This man painted a banner featuring Athena stomping out the flames of love, with Cupid bound to
a tree, which is now lost. He painted an unflattering fresco of the Pazzi (POT-see) conspirators on the
Palazzo Vecchio. This man's art was greatly influenced by his dedication to (*) Savonarola, and he
depicted Zephyr and some falling flower petals in his Primavera. For 10 points, name this Italian artist of a
painting that shows a figure emerging from a giant shell, The Birth of Venus.
ANSWER: Sandro Botticelli [or Alessandro di Mariano Filipepi]
030-09-6-04107

7. This man showed that it is not possible to determine whether a finite input and program will
eventually terminate. When one object named for this scientist features a set of rules calling for only
one action in any given situation, then it is called deterministic. In addition to working with a halting
problem, this man names a (*) thesis along with the developer of lambda calculus, about the existence of a
namesake machine for every algorithm. For 10 points, name this man that names a thesis along with Alonzo
Church, whose namesake machine consists of an infinite tape and is often used to simulate computer
algorithms.
ANSWER: Alan Turing
033-09-6-04108

8. These objects were built using the "clinker" technique. A broadax was used to obtain wood for
them. These objects were classified as either karvs or knarrs. The best-preserved one of these objects
was discovered at Oseberg in 1906. The largest discovered one was 119 feet long and had space for
seventy-two oars. These objects often included a square sail and a carving of a (*) dragon at the bow.
For 10 points, name these vessels used to transport Vikings across water.
ANSWER: longboats [or longships; prompt on Viking ships; prompt on Viking boats]
003-09-6-04109

9. In the final scene of this work, Mariatta becomes impregnated by eating a berry and gives virgin
birth. As a result, the protagonist of this work sails away, which symbolizes Christianity taking over
the native myth system ruled by Ukko. Another significant event in this poem is (*) Lemminkainen’s
(LEM-un-KAI-nenz) shooting of the Swan of Tuonela (twah-NELL-uh). This work was an inspiration for
many musical pieces by Jean Sibelius. For 10 points, Vainamoinen’s (VAI-nuh-MOY-nenz) quest for the
magical mill Sampo occurs in what national epic of Finland?
ANSWER: the Kalevala
034-09-6-04110

10. This island was the base of operations for the rebellion of Euphemius against the Byzantines;
Euphemius later offered this island to an Arab army. After the eleventh-century Battle of Misilmeri,
this island was conquered by Roger Guiscard. Peter III of Aragon took control of it after most of its
French population was killed during its namesake (*) "Vespers." This target of World War II's Operation
Husky was once united, in an eponymous kingdom, with Naples, and was home to the Greek colony of
Syracuse. For 10 points, name this birthplace of the Mafia that is a large Italian island.
ANSWER: Sicily
040-09-6-04111

Tournament-9 Round 4 Page 2 of 12
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

11. The grave of Dr. Valentine McGillycuddy is located atop this state's highest point. This state is
home to two major cave systems, Jewel Cave and Wind Cave, as well as a work of art started by
Korczak Zió?kowski and the Homestake Mine. Lakes Oahe, Sharpe, and Francis Case are located on
the Missouri River in this state, which is the home of the (*) Pine Ridge Indian Reservation. Rapid City is
the fastest-growing city, though Sioux Falls is its largest city. For 10 points, what is this state that contains
the Badlands and Mount Rushmore?
ANSWER: South Dakota
057-09-6-04112

12. In an elegy to General Wooster, this writer noted "How, presumtuous shall we hope to find, Divine
acceptance with the Almighty mind." In another work, this poet expresses gratitude for being "taught
to understand that there’s a God, that there's a Savior too" and notes that she "may be refined, and
join the angelic train." That work appeared in her (*) Poems on Various Subjects, Religious and Moral,
which was prefaced with "attestations" by Boston men. For 10 points, name this poet of "On Being Brought
from Africa to America," the first African-American woman to be published.
ANSWER: Phillis Wheatley
034-09-6-04113

13. In a posthumously published work of this philosopher, a skeptic named Philo discusses the nature
of God. This philosopher was so loathed in his day for his near-atheism that a woman once refused to
pull him out of a bog, in which he was drowning, until he recited the Lord's Prayer. This author of (*)
Dialogues Concerning Natural Religion put forth his opinion on miracles in a reworking of the first book of
his Treatise of Human Nature, entitled the Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding. For 10 points, name
this Scottish empiricist of the eighteenth century.
ANSWER: David Hume
040-09-6-04114

14. The Dole Effect involves the occurrence of this element, which is tested for in the Winkler test.
James Dewar was the first to produce the liquid form of this element. When four of this element bonds
together, it is called (*) "red," and this gas is the only diatomic one to exhibit its own magnetic moment.
This third most abundant element in the universe is present in ozone. For 10 points, name this chemical
element directly above sulfur on the periodic table, with a chemical symbol O.
ANSWER: oxygen [or O until mentioned]
033-09-6-04115

15. This sociologist wrote The Rejection and the Meaning of the World, and defined a state as an entity
with a monopoly on the legitimate use of physical force in Politics as a Vocation. Talcott Parsons
translated several of this man's works into English, including Economy and Society. In his most
famous work, he argued that (*) Calvinism influenced the development of market economies. For 10
points, name this sociologist, who wrote The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism.
ANSWER: Max Weber
024-09-6-04116

16. One novel by this author features a visit to Eliot’s Pulpit and sees the feminist Zenobia committing
suicide after Hollingsworth betrays her for her half-sister. In another work by him, Hepzibah feels
shame when poverty forces her to open a penny shop, and she eventually leaves her estate behind to
Holgrave, a descendant of (*) Matthew Maule. For 10 points, name the author of The Blithedale Romance
and The House of the Seven Gables, who wrote about Pearl and her adulterous mother Hester in The Scarlet
Letter.
ANSWER: Nathaniel Hawthorne
034-09-6-04117
Tournament-9 Round 4 Page 3 of 12
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

17. The causal gene for this disease was identified by Francesco Ramirez in 1991. It is caused by a
defect in the production of the glycoprotein fibrillin-1, which is needed in the genesis of elastin fibers.
This disease affects all connective tissue, but its most common symptoms include a dilated (*) aorta and
abnormally long, slender extremities. For 10 points, Michael Phelps and Abraham Lincoln are commonly
misidentified as sufferers of what syndrome?
ANSWER: Marfan Syndrome
040-09-6-04118

18. One farm in this battle was attacked by troops under D'Erlon. This battle was immediately
preceded by one at Ligny, where the troops under Friedrich von Bülow were not used. During this
battle, one commander failed to reinforce the success of Michel Ney. Prussian troops at this battle
were commanded by (*) Blücher and arrived on the French right flank late in the fighting. This battle ended
the "Hundred Days" of one commander. For 10 points, name this battle that took place in Belgium, an 1815
victory for the Duke of Wellington and final defeat for Napoleon.
ANSWER: Battle of Waterloo
023-09-6-04119

19. The artist Nicias painted in the details of some of this man's works. The courtesan Phryne
(FRIN-ey) was the model for one of his statues. One of his statues shows a boy god leaning against a
tree that is being climbed by a lizard. In addition to Apollo Sauroctonos, this man created a work that
Pliny the Elder believed to be the finest statue in the world, (*) Aphrodite of Cnidus (kin-EYE-duss). For
10 points, name this Greek sculptor of Hermes Carrying the Infant Dionysus.
ANSWER: Praxiteles
030-09-6-04120

20. Proteins in this organism include sevenless and bride of sevenless, both of which are expressed in its
ommatidia. George Beadle discovered that eye color in this organism was determined by a series of
chemicals. Another scientist who worked with this organism showed that genes on chromosomes are
the basic units of (*) heredity. That scientist, who studied genetic linkage using this organism, was Thomas
Hunt Morgan. For 10 points, name this commonly used model organism in biology, with scientific name
Drosophila melanogaster.
ANSWER: fruit fly [or Drosophila melanogaster before mentioned]
033-09-6-04121

21. In one play by this author, Lady Muldoon's estate is the setting of a play seen by Moon and
Birdboot. This author wrote a play that switches between the present and 1809, involving the phrase
"carnal embrace," which is pondered by Thomasina Coverly. Besides The (*) Real Inspector Hound
and Arcadia, this author wrote a play wherein the two title characters play Questions, watch The Tragedians,
flip a coin several times, and meet their end in England. For 10 points, name this playwright of the Hamlet
spinoff Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead.
ANSWER: Tom Stoppard [or Tomas Straussler]
020-09-6-04122

22. This particle serves as a mediator in the quantum field with which it shares its name, whose
nonzero vacuum expectation value allows symmetry breaking. Its mass is estimated to be
approximately 140 times that of a proton, has spin zero, and explains the difference between the W
and Z bosons and the (*) massless photon, as it is thought to give mass to the gauge photons. The Large
Hadron Collider was designed to search for this particle, sometimes called the "God particle." For 10 points,
name this particle, the only Standard Model particle yet to be observed.
ANSWER: Higgs boson
025-09-6-04123
Tournament-9 Round 4 Page 4 of 12
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

23. Seth Warner led this group in the capture of Crown Point. This group often met in the Catamount
Tavern. This group originally worked to expel settlers from New York from the New (*) Hampshire
Grants. It played a key role in winning the Battle of Bennington. For 10 points, name this group of Vermont
militiamen who helped capture Fort Ticonderoga during the Revolutionary War under the leadership of
Ethan Allen.
ANSWER: Green Mountain Boys
030-09-6-04124

Tournament-9 Round 4 Page 5 of 12
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

Tournament-9
Round 4
Bonuses
1. This process favors those that have traits which are more likely to facilitate reproduction. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this process that, according to Charles Darwin, is the driving force behind evolution.
ANSWER: natural selection
[10] This type of natural selection is contrasted with directional selection and stabilizing selection. It favors
those without intermediate traits.
ANSWER: disruptive selection
[10] Diversifying selection may yield way to the sympatric form of this process, which also comes in
peripatric and allopatric forms.
ANSWER: speciation
033-09-6-04201

2. This man wrote a violin concerto in D major that has a “Canzonetta” as its second movement. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this composer of “The Waltz of the Flowers” and “Russian Dance,” which can be heard in his
ballet The Nutcracker.
ANSWER: Peter Ilyich Tchaikovsky
[10] This last symphony by Tchaikovsky includes a “limping waltz” in 5/4 time. It shares its name with
Beethoven’s Piano Sonata number 8.
ANSWER: Symphony Pathetique [or Symphony 6; or Sixth Symphony]
[10] Tchaikovsky’s first composition of this type was in B-flat minor. That work was dedicated to Nikolay
Rubinstein, who claimed that, “like the first pancake, it is a flop.”
ANSWER: piano concerto
027-09-6-04202

3. Name these people involved in the controversial 2009 presidential election in Iran, for 10 points each.
[10] This incumbent president was declared the winner despite reports of voting irregularities.
ANSWER: Mahmoud Ahmadinejad
[10] Protests broke out in support of this opposition candidate, who was reported as having received only
one-third of the official total vote, even though pre-election polls and statistical analysis showed that he was
on pace to win the election.
ANSWER: Mir-Hossein Mousavi
[10] Protesters rallied around the death of this Iranian woman, which was captured on video and leaked
around the world. She is often known by her first name.
ANSWER: Neda Agha-Soltan [or Neda Agha-Soltan]
025-09-6-04203

Tournament-9 Round 4 Page 6 of 12
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

4. In the late nineteenth century, this country's leaders Isaac Butt and Charles Parnell demanded home rule.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this country whose devastating mid-nineteenth century potato famine effectively ended its
campaign to repeal its forced union with England.
ANSWER: Ireland
[10] In 1536, this English king overthrew the Fitzgerald dynasty and proclaimed himself King of Ireland.
During his reign, a Scottish invasion was defeated at the Battle of Flodden Field.
ANSWER: Henry VIII [prompt on Henry]
[10] This British commander led a 1649 invasion of Ireland, during which his troops massacred the
population of Drogheda.
ANSWER: Oliver Cromwell
004-09-6-04204

5. He is buried under a linden tree after committing suicide with two pistols that he borrowed from Albert.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this literary character, whose "sorrows" are the subject of a 1774 Romantic novel.
ANSWER: Young Werther
[10] The Sorrows of Young Werther was written by this polymath German author of Wilhelm Meister's
Apprenticeship.
ANSWER: Johann Wolfgang von Goethe (GER-tuh)
[10] In the novel, Werther falls in love with this woman, who is engaged to Albert; the pair experiences an
emotional moment together after Albert reads her a passage from Ossian.
ANSWER: Charlotte
040-09-6-04205

6. Identify the following chemicals, for 10 points each.
[10] This simplest alkyne, with formula C2H2, is used in welding.
ANSWER: acetylene
[10] Friedrich Wohler discovered the process to produce acetylene from this compound, used in a namesake
lamp formerly used in the mining industry.
ANSWER: calcium carbide [or CaC2; prompt on carbide]
[10] This compound's rapid decomposition into a gas makes it useful for automobile airbag systems.
ANSWER: sodium azide [or NaN3]
025-09-6-04206

7. This plan called for each state to contribute an equal number of representatives to a unicameral legislature.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Constitutional Convention plan, proposed by William Paterson, that opposed the Virginia
Plan of Edmund Randolph.
ANSWER: New Jersey Plan
[10] Roger Sherman helped to work out this agreement on forming a bicameral Congress, settling a dispute
between small and large states at the Constitutional Convention.
ANSWER: Connecticut Compromise [or Great Compromise]
[10] This later agreement at the Constitutional Convention resolved the issue of how to count slaves for
calculation of representation in Congress and taxes.
ANSWER: Three-Fifths Compromise
036-09-6-04207

Tournament-9 Round 4 Page 7 of 12
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

8. This man painted frescoes for the luncheon club of the San Francisco Stock Exchange. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Mexican muralist, whose mural Man at the Crossroads was located in Rockefeller Center
before it was destroyed due to its depiction of Lenin.
ANSWER: Diego Rivera
[10] Diego Rivera was married to this Mexican painter, who taught herself to paint after a 1925 bus accident.
Her works include Self Portrait with Thorn Necklace and Self Portrait Dedicated to Leon Trotsky.
ANSWER: Frida Kahlo
[10] The works of this other Mexican muralist can be found in a number of U.S. universities, such as his
Prometheus at Pomona College, Mankind's Struggle at The New School, and Epic of Culture in the New
World at the Baker Library at Dartmouth.
ANSWER: Jose Orozco
030-09-6-04208

9. This namesake of an expression for a duplicitous person was the god of doorways and arches. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this Roman god, who had no apparent Greek equivalent, ruled over all beginnings, and was
represented with a two-faced head.
ANSWER: Janus
[10] Janus once granted this god sanctuary when he was fleeing from Jupiter. This Roman god of agriculture
was also the father of such Roman gods as Juno, Pluto, and Jupiter.
ANSWER: Saturn [do not accept "Cronus"]
[10] Janus was analogous to sky god Ani from this people's mythology. These people followed the prophet
Tages and worshipped Tinia and Fufluns until the Romans displaced them in Italy.
ANSWER: Etruscans
052-09-6-04209

10. This character comes to Heorot (HAY-oh-rot) for vengeance and abducts and kills Aeschere
(ASH-hair-uh), the dearest advisor of King Hrothgar (ROTH-gar). For 10 points each:
[10] Name this antagonist.
ANSWER: Grendel’s Mother [do not accept or prompt on "Grendel"]
[10] Grendel’s Mother, like her son, is defeated by the title character of this Old English epic, which was
retranslated by Seamus Heaney (SHAY-mus HAY-nee) in the 1990s.
ANSWER: Beowulf
[10] Towards the end of the epic, Beowulf defeats this creature, his third major antagonist, with the help of
his kinsman Wiglaf. Beowulf unfortunately dies from its venom.
ANSWER: the dragon
034-09-6-04210

11. This diagram plots absolute magnitude against temperature. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this diagram used to show the relationship between the brightness and the color of stars.
ANSWER: Hertzsprung-Russell diagram [or H-R diagram; or HRD]
[10] The H-R diagram contains this large and continuous band, in which the typical star will spend much of
its lifetime.
ANSWER: the Main Sequence
[10] Stars in the asymptotic giant branch of the H-R diagram have a core composed of oxygen and this
element, the product of helium fusion.
ANSWER: carbon [or C]
026-09-6-04211

Tournament-9 Round 4 Page 8 of 12
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

12. He included his recurring character of Berenger in Exit the King. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Romanian-French proponent of the Theater of the Absurd, who wrote The Lesson and The
Bald Soprano.
ANSWER: Eugene Ionesco
[10] Berenger also appears in this Ionesco play, in which he stubbornly refuses to turn into the title horned
animal even after everyone else has.
ANSWER: Rhinoceros
[10] In this Ionesco play, the Old Man and the Old Women throw themselves out a window when the Orator
finally arrives.
ANSWER: The Chairs [or Les Chaises]
015-09-6-04212

13. According to the quantity theory of money, this is the product of money supply and the velocity of
money. For 10 points each:
[10] What economic value, which decreases as unemployment rate rises according to Okun’s Law, measures
the value of total goods and services created within a country's borders?
ANSWER: GDP [or Gross Domestic Product; do not accept "Gross National Product"]
[10] GDP per capita is not a good indicator of standard of living because of inequality of income
distribution, represented by this curve. It plots cumulative income against cumulative population.
ANSWER: Lorenz curve
[10] A better measure of standard of living is the Human Development Index, published every year by this
body's Development Council. This organization's other organs include the International Court of Justice and
the Security Council.
ANSWER: the United Nations
034-09-6-04213

14. It voted for the first regicide of an English king after its moderate members were evicted. For 10 points
each:
[10] Identify this legislative body, which received its name after Pride's Purge decimated the previous Long
Parliament of insufficiently radical members.
ANSWER: Rump Parliament
[10] The Rump Parliament ordered the execution of this English king, whose supporters were known as the
Cavaliers.
ANSWER: Charles I [prompt on Charles]
[10] One of the major causes of the English Civil War was Charles's institution of unpopular taxes to pay for
these brief religious wars with Scotland. They ended with the Treaty of Ripon in 1640.
ANSWER: Bishops' Wars
053-09-6-04214

Tournament-9 Round 4 Page 9 of 12
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

15. Her book The Human Condition examined her concept of the "vita activa," and she also wrote The
Origins of Totalitarianism. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this philosopher, who reported on the trial of the notorious war criminal in Eichmann in
Jerusalem
ANSWER: Hannah Arendt
[10] In Eichmann in Jerusalem, Hannah Arendt theorized about the "banality" of this concept. The
"problem" of this concept is a common theme in theories regarding the existence of God, and it is the second
of two concepts which a Nietzsche title proposes to go "beyond."
ANSWER: evil
[10] Hannah Arendt had a romantic relationship with this German philosopher, who supported Hitler in his
Freiburg Address and wrote Being and Time.
ANSWER: Martin Heidegger
030-09-6-04215

16. When Felipe Montero embraces the title character, she turns into a 109-year old widow, in this author’s
Aura. For 10 points each:
[10] Who is this author of a novel about a business tycoon who sacrifices his friend Gonzalo Bernal for his
own freedom, entitled The Death of Artemio Cruz?
ANSWER: Carlos Fuentes Macías
[10] Fuentes is a writer of this country, which is also home to the magical realist Laura Esquivel. It is the
setting of Fuentes's novel about Aztec mythology, A Change of Skin.
ANSWER: Mexico
[10] Besides Laura Esquivel, another major female author of Mexico is this seventeenh-century nun, whose
"Reply to Sister Filotea" argued for women’s right to education.
ANSWER: Sor Juana Inés de La Cruz [or Sor Juana Inés de La Cruz]
034-09-6-04216

17. This group of Southeast Asia is sometimes erroneously referred to as the Miao (meow). For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this ethnic group, found in Vietnam, south China, and Thailand, which has large pockets of
immigrants living in Minnesota, Wisconsin and Michigan.
ANSWER: Hmong [or Mong]
[10] The Hmong (mung) are a hill people in Southeast Asia, as are the Karen, who have fought for
independence from the Rangoon- and Napyidaw-based governments of this country since 1949.
ANSWER: Burma [or Myanmar]
[10] During the Vietnam War, many Hmong took part in the "Secret War" against this communist group in
Laos.
ANSWER: Pathet Lao
053-09-6-04217

Tournament-9 Round 4 Page 10 of 12
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

18. Secret routes used during this battle include the Vardates route and the Chalkomata route, as revealed by
the traitor Ephialtes (eff-ee-ALL-teez). For 10 points each:
[10] Name this battle, which resulted in the destruction of a small force of Spartans, Thebans, and Thespians
who held out for several days against a much larger force of Persians.
ANSWER: Battle of Thermopylae
[10] This king led the Spartans during the Battle of Thermopylae. He chose to stay in the pass even when it
became clear that the Greek position had been compromised.
ANSWER: Leonidas I
[10] This battle occurred shortly after Thermopylae. The Greek fleet under Themistocles crushed the Persian
fleet and ended the naval theater of the war here.
ANSWER: Battle of Salamis
023-09-6-04218

19. It was commissioned by Emperor Justinian I, and was designed by Anthemius of Tralles and Isidorus of
Miletus. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this one-time Cathedral that supports its large dome using pendentives. Sultan Bayezid added
minarets to it when it was converted into a mosque.
ANSWER: Hagia Sofia
[10] The Hagia Sofia can be found in this Turkish city. This city is also home to the Mosque of Suleyman,
designed by Sinan.
ANSWER: Istanbul
[10] This other structure in Istanbul was designed by Mehmed Aga. It has six minarets, rather than the
standard four. It has a golden spire on its largest dome, which is the namesake color.
ANSWER: Blue Mosque [or the Sultan Ahmet I Mosque]
027-09-6-04219

20. The electrical conduction system in this organ includes the Purkinje fibers and the bundle of His. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this organ, whose electrical system allows it to beat in the absence of signals from the brain.
ANSWER: heart
[10] A pacemaker is implanted if this node, responsible for keeping the heart beating at a steady rate, is
impaired.
ANSWER: sinoatrial node [or SA node]
[10] The electrical activity of the heart can be measured using one of these devices.
ANSWER: electrocardiogram [or EKG; or ECG]
003-09-6-04220

21. George Shelby honors the title character’s Christian values at the end of this novel. For 10 points each:
[10] In what novel does Simon Legree abuse Cassy and Emmeline sexually and beat the title character to
death?
ANSWER: Uncle Tom’s Cabin
[10] Uncle Tom’s Cabin is the best-selling work by this female author, whose less famous works include
Old Town Folks and Poganuc People.
ANSWER: Harriet Beecher Stowe
[10] This female author of A Century of Dishonor hoped that her novel Ramona would “do for the Indian a
thousandth part of what Uncle Tom's Cabin did for the Negro.”
ANSWER: Helen Hunt Jackson
034-09-6-04221

Tournament-9 Round 4 Page 11 of 12
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

22. A speaking tour by this man was instrumental in the election of the first elected female US Senator, and
he blamed the Federal Reserve for the Great Depression. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this populist Louisiana politician, who was killed during a fracas after traveling to oversee a
special session of the Louisiana State Legislature.
ANSWER: Huey Pierce Long Jr.
[10] This physician made the mistake of punching Huey Long, resulting in his taking almost sixty bullets in
retaliation. Later analysis indicates the Long was killed not by this man, but by Long's bodyguards
attempting to shoot this man.
ANSWER: Carl Austin Weiss
[10] This Huey Long campaign slogan was combined with the common name for a kind of fish to create
Long's nickname.
ANSWER: "Every Man A King"
002-09-6-04222

Tournament-9 Round 4 Page 12 of 12
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

