Tournament-9
Round 11
Tossups
1. Upon arriving in the title locale of the opera in which he appears, this character sings that "news
has a kind of mystery." He later recollects his hamburger stand in Hawaii. This character's arrival is
marked by the piece "The Landing of the Spirit of '76." This operatic character watches a
performance of The Red Detachment of Women with his wife. He is the title character of an opera in
which a portrait of a chairman comes to life and dances to a "foxtrot for orchestra" with Madame (*)
Mao. For 10 points, name this operatic character, whom composer John Adams depicted "in China" in an
interpretation of his 1973 diplomatic breakthrough.
ANSWER: Richard Milhous Nixon
026-09-6-11102

2. This instrument plays the melody of the Kol Nidre in a composition by Max Bruch. J. S. Bach's six
suites for this instrument begin with a prelude consisting of eight-note arpeggiated chords. Anton
Dvorak (duh-VOR-jack) composed a B minor concerto for this instrument, and Edward Elgar's
concerto for this instrument was popularized by Jacqueline du Pre. This instrument is tuned an octave
lower than a (*) viola, and its notable players include Mstislav Rostropovich, Pablo Casals, and Yo-Yo Ma.
For 10 points, name this string instrument that is held upright on the ground while playing.
ANSWER: cello [or violincello]
004-09-6-11103

3. This book is divided into sections of four stories each, including "The Twenty-Six Malignant Gates"
and "Queen Mother of the Western Skies." A four-year old child named Bing drowns in this work,
traumatizing one family. Another character in this book is suffering strain in her marriage to Ted
Jordan, and Lena is recovering from bulimia. The title group of this novel is composed of three
mothers and four daughters, who meet every month to play (*) mah-jongg and reminisce about their
former lives in China. For 10 points, name this book by Amy Tan.
ANSWER: The Joy Luck Club
019-09-6-11104

4. In 1999, a violent outburst from the direction of this constellation was at first thought to have
revealed the closest black hole to Earth. Its namesake triplet consists of the Lagoon Nebula, the
Omega Nebula, and the Trifid Nebula. It lies between the center of the (*) Milky Way and the planet
Earth, and it is home to a star formation known as the teapot. For 10 points, Rukbat is the brightest star in
which constellation often depicted as a centaur holding a bow and arrow?
ANSWER: Sagittarius
040-09-6-11105

5. The role of Innogen was removed from early editions of this play. One character in this play
constantly asks the Sexton to make a note of things. Another character in this play is accused of
infidelity when her maidservant Margaret is confused with her. That misunderstanding is
orchestrated by Conrade and Borrachio, who work with Don (*) John in his attempt to undermine the
marriage of Claudio and Hero, until they are arrested by Dogberry. For 10 points, name this Shakespeare
play set in Messina, in which Don Pedro plays matchmaker to Beatrice and Benedick.
ANSWER: Much Ado About Nothing
015-09-6-11106

Tournament-9 Round 11 Page 1 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. In Spanish, this construction is formed by replacing the "o" in the first personal singular form with
the ending for the opposite type of verb. In English, it exists in fixed phrases such as "until death do us
part" and "long live the king." In Italian, this construction is used in clauses subordinated to the
phrase "I think that," in contrast to French, where the (*) indicative would be used. For 10 points, name
this grammatical mood, which typically expresses emotion, opinion, or uncertainty.
ANSWER: subjunctive mood
024-09-6-11107

7. As majority floor leader of the House during the War of 1812, he earned the nickname "Young
Hercules." His wife Floride (pronounced like "Florida") initiated the social boycott of Peggy Eaton
during the Petticoat Affair. He replied to a Jefferson Day toast by stating, "The Union, next to our
liberty, the most dear." That quote reflected his belief that any state could declare an (*) act of
Congress unconstitutional, a view expressed in his South Carolina Exposition and Protest. For 10 points,
name this South Carolina politician who formulated the doctrine of nullification and was a compromise
Vice-President to two of his political opponents, John Quincy Adams and Andrew Jackson.
ANSWER: John C. Calhoun
030-09-6-11108

8. This work's sections include "Of the Substance of Angels Absolutely Considered" and "Of Christ's
Manner of Life." It consists of a series of questions, objections, and responses, which often quote
Aristotle, whom this work refers to as "The Philosopher." Its first part presents five proofs of the
existence of God, and its final part was left unfinished after its author had a spiritual experience in
1273. It was written by a prominent (*) student of Albertus Magnus and the titan of Scholastic philosophy.
For 10 points, name this systematic work by Thomas Aquinas which purports to collect all Catholic
theology.
ANSWER: Summa Theologica [or Summa Theologiae]
024-09-6-11109

9. This woman took the place of her sister after her sister's death in an arranged marriage with the
count Alexandre. After Alexandre was guillotined, this woman took up the name Rose and entered an
affair with Paul Barras. This Martinique native was notorious for her bad teeth and spendthrift
personality. Through her daughter Hortense, she became an ancestor of the (*) monarchs of Belgium,
Greece, Luxembourg, and Sweden. For 10 points, name this first "empress of the French," who was
coronated at Notre Dame by her second husband, Napoleon Bonaparte.
ANSWER: Josephine de Beauharnais
040-09-6-11110

10. The largest minority group in this country are the Shan people. One of its major rivers, the
Salween, empties into the Gulf of Martaban. This country is home to the Shwe Dagon Pagoda, and (*)
Mandalay is a major transportation hub of this nation. The Naga Hills lie on this nation's border with India,
and the major river of this nation is the Irrawaddy. For 10 points, name this Southeast Asian nation, a former
British colony where a military junta suppressed protests by monks in 2007.
ANSWER: Burma [or Myanmar]
030-09-6-11111

Tournament-9 Round 11 Page 2 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

11. One of the founders of this art movement used pasted paper and charcoal in his collage Le
Courrier. Another of its founders painted Nude in a Black Armchair and depicted jagged women with
African masks in another painting. That founder of this movement showed five Barcelona (*)
prostitutes in the aforementioned painting, also created a work that uses a lightbulb and a bull to
commemorate the bombing of a Basque city. For 10 points, name this movement to which the paintings Les
Demoiselles d'Avignon and Guernica belong, which was pioneered by Georges Braque and Pablo Picasso.
ANSWER: Cubism
024-09-6-11112

12. One character in this novel must choose to defend the father of a woman he loves or the
protagonist of this work; another of its characters, Little Gavroche, is killed during a political riot.
The protagonist of this work is required to carry a yellow passport to note that he is a (*) felon. The
Bishop of Digne saves the main character's life by claiming he has given a candlestick as a gift. This novel's
protagonist gives away Cosette when she marries Marius. For 10 points, name this Victor Hugo novel in
which a loaf of bread is stolen by Jean Valjean.
ANSWER: Les Miserables
002-09-6-11113

13. An "artificial chromosome" named for these organisms can hold up to one million base pairs. In
2009, two species of these organisms, S. pombe and S. cerevisiae, were genetically engineered to
produce vanillin. Another species, Candida albicans, is responsible for infections of the (*) genital area
named after these organisms. Most of these organisms reproduce by budding, and one of them is commonly
used by brewers. For 10 points, name these fungi, one species of which is used to leaven bread.
ANSWER: yeasts [prompt on fungi before mentioned]
003-09-6-11114

14. During a journey taken by this man, he has five bad dreams, each of with is interpreted by a friend
as a good omen. In addition to taking that journey to the Cedar Forest, where he helps kill the
demonic guardian (*) Humbaba, this hero rejects the advances of Ishtar. That action which causes the death
of his wild friend, Enkidu. This two-thirds-god, one-third-man figure fails to gain immortality despite the aid
of Utnapishtim. For 10 points, name this king of Uruk, the subject of a Sumerian epic that is one of the
oldest works of narrative literature.
ANSWER: Gilgamesh [or Bilgames]
002-09-6-11115

15. This instrument plays the melody of the Kol Nidre in a composition by Max Bruch. J. S. Bach's six
suites for this instrument begin with a prelude consisting of eight-note arpeggiated chords. Anton
Dvorak (duh-VOR-jack) composed a B minor concerto for this instrument, and Edward Elgar's
concerto for this instrument was popularized by Jacqueline du Pre. This instrument is tuned an octave
lower than a (*) viola, and its notable players include Mstislav Rostropovich, Pablo Casals, and Yo-Yo Ma.
For 10 points, name this string instrument that is held upright on the ground while playing.
ANSWER: cello [or violincello]
004-09-6-11116

Tournament-9 Round 11 Page 3 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

16. One of his first actions after taking power was to give Kabaka Mutesa a state burial. This leader
expelled over eighty thousand Asians from his country. This man overthrew Milton Obote and forced
Operation Thunderball, when he allowed Palestinian separatists to land a plane full of Israeli hostages
at (*) Entebbe airport in his country. This leader was finally overthrown when his attempt to annex the
Kagera region caused Julius Nyerere of Tanzania to depose him. For 10 points, name this fan of boxing and
cannibalism who lasted most of the 1970s as an infamous dictator of Uganda.
ANSWER: Idi Amin Dada
015-09-6-11117

17. This man reworked a piece he wrote for Eugene Goossens into a finale for his third symphony.
This man composed a work based on a visit to a dance hall with Carlos Chávez that incorporated
Mexican folk music, his El Salon Mexico. He composed the score for a work that follows newlyweds on
the (*) frontier, incorporating the Shaker hymn "Simple Gifts." For 10 points, name this composer who
created the work Fanfare for the Common Man and worked with choreographer Martha Graham on
Appalachian Spring.
ANSWER: Aaron Copland
023-09-6-11118

18. A problem posed by Hadamard attempts to find the largest value for one of these entities given the
elements of a set. Differential equations can be solved using one called the Wronskian, and these
entities can be computed using the technique of expansion by minors. Ratios of these are used to find
solutions to systems of equations via (*) Cramer's Rule. If this value is zero, the matrix associated with it is
singular. For 10 points, name this mathematical concept that, for a two by two matrix a b; c d, is equal to a d
minus b c.
ANSWER: determinant
003-09-6-11119

19. One ruler with this personal name led a country whose forces were routed at Friedland, causing
him to meet in a raft on the Memel River to discuss the Treaty of Tilsit. Like Otto von Bismarck,
another ruler with this name set up a series of anti-Semitic regulations called the May Laws. A
different ruler with this name set up a form of local self-government called the (*) zemstvo. For 10
points, give the name of the Russian tsar who fought Napoleon at Austerlitz, shared with the later tsar who
emancipated the serfs and was assassinated by the People's Will.
ANSWER: Alexander [accept Alexander I before "May Laws" is read]
052-09-6-11120

20. Baeyer and Villiger discovered an organic reaction of this type that proceeds via the Criegee
intermediate to produce an ester from a ketone. An anti-Markovnikov reaction of this type was
developed by Herbert Brown and produces an alcohol. In addition to the hydroboration reaction of
this type, this term also names a "state" that indicates the hypothetical charge that an atom would
have if all bonds were fully ionic. This term names a (*) "number" designated by Roman numerals that
denotes the charge of the central atom of a coordination compound when all of its ligands are removed. For
10 points, name this term that names a type of reaction in which electrons are lost, the opposite of reduction
reactions.
ANSWER: oxidation [do not accept "redox"]
026-09-6-11121

Tournament-9 Round 11 Page 4 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

21. Members of this movement rioted after learning that some of their leaders, such as Henry Vincent,
were imprisoned in the Westgate Hotel in Newport. This movement was popularized by a namesake
Thomas Carlyle pamphlet, and it took its name from a document drafted by William Lovett. This
movement advocated the (*) secret ballot, universal male suffrage, and payment for Members of
Parliament among its six demands. For 10 points, name this mid-nineteenth-century social movement in
Great Britain, which wrote a petition known as the People's Charter.
ANSWER: Chartism [or Chartists]
003-09-6-11122

22. One string theory proposal treats them as fuzzballs and a proposed way of extracting energy from
them is the Penrose process. The Reissner-Nordström type have nonzero charge. The conjecture that
they can be completely described by charge, angular momentum, and mass is known as the no hair
theorem. One region of them is known as ergosphere, and they can be created by (*) compacting a mass
below its Schwarzschild radius. Information can not travel back past their event horizon, and at their centers
are singularities. For 10 points, name these objects from which no mass or light can escape.
ANSWER: black holes
001-09-6-11123

23. During a dinner scene in this work, a professor of oriental religion is chastised for his nationalistic
views. In a meeting with a chess player, the main character of this novel watches a mirror break into
miniature versions of himself. After a discussion with (*) Hermine, the protagonist notices a cinema
playing The Ten Commandments. At a dress ball, this novels main character is invited to the Magic Theater,
a place "For Madmen Only." For 10 points, name this novel about Harry Haller and his half-man,
half-canine nature, a work of Herman Hesse.
ANSWER: Steppenwolf
030-09-6-11124

Tournament-9 Round 11 Page 5 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

Tournament-9
Round 11
Bonuses
1. The ground for this series of events was laid by the political union of Saigo Takamori and Kido
Takayoshi. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this series of events in Japanese history that led to a namesake emperor becoming the focus of
political restructuring, beginning in 1868.
ANSWER: Meiji Restoration [or Meiji Ishin; or Meiji Revolution_ or other close equivalents]
[10] The Meiji Restoration brought to an end this shogunate, which ruled Japan starting in 1603 following
the dissolution of the Ashikaga Shogunate in civil war.
ANSWER: Tokugawa Shogunate [or Tokugawa Bakufu_]
[10] Saigo Takamori grew to lament the diminished privileges for the samurai under the Meiji government,
and led this rebellion, which rose from dissatisfaction in a namesake feudal domain.
ANSWER: Satsuma Rebellion [or Seinan Senso; or Southwestern War]
026-09-6-11201

2. A bunch of junk from space continuously reaches earth. Identify some of it, for 10 points each.
[10] These high-energy charged particles are mostly protons, with an admixture of helium nuclei. Their
collisions with particles in the earth's atmosphere cause showers of pions.
ANSWER: cosmic rays
[10] Eugene Parker first described this phenomenon, a continuous source of high energy protons and
electrons from the Sun that buffet earth. It is responsible for pointing the tails of comets away from the sun.
ANSWER: solar wind
[10] These phenomena aren't so much junk as incredibly high energy radiation that is produced from the
collapse of a massive star or a neutron star merger.
ANSWER: gamma ray bursts
043-09-6-11202

3. This event was first studied by Otto Jespersen. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this linguistic event, that saw a change in tongue height during pronunciation and occurred
between the fifteenth and eighteenth centuries.
ANSWER: the Great Vowel Shift
[10] The Great Vowel Shift occurred in this Germanic language, which has the thirdmost native speakers
globally and is an official language of India and Nigeria.
ANSWER: English
[10] During the Great Vowel Shift, the two highest vowels became these features, which are a combination
of two vowel sounds created when the tongue glides quickly from one to the next.
ANSWER: dipthongs
015-09-6-11203

Tournament-9 Round 11 Page 6 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

4. This composer never finished his opera about Booker T. Washington's visit to the White House, A Guest
of Honor. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this American composer of "The Entertainer" and "The Maple Leaf Rag," who was known as the
"king of ragtime."
ANSWER: Scott Joplin
[10] Ragtime is characterized by this kind of rhythm, which emphasizes unexpected beats and notes played
halfway between beats in the melody.
ANSWER: syncopation [or syncopated rhythm]
[10] Ragtime melodies inspired this composer's piano piece "Golliwog's Cakewalk," which appears in his
suite Children's Corner.
ANSWER: Claude Debussy
004-09-6-11204

5. For 10 points each, name these islands.
[10] This member of the Gilbert Islands consists of thirty-two atolls and one raised coral island. Its capital is
South Tarawa, and it declared a shifting of the International Date Line around its territory in order to become
the first place on earth to enter the third millenium.
ANSWER: Kiribati [accept either a phonetic pronunciation or "Kiribas"]
[10] James Cook referred to this archipelago as the "Friendly Islands." This nation south of Samoa is the
only inhabited Pacific island group that was never colonized, and remains the only one with a monarchy.
ANSWER: Tonga
[10] This archipelago east of the Philippines includes the islands of Angaur, Babeldaob and Koror.
ANSWER: Palau
053-09-6-11205

6. Answer some questions about a common element, for 10 points each.
[10] This element with atomic number 80 is the only element that is a liquid at room temperature. It is
commonly referred to as quicksilver and has symbol Hg.
ANSWER: mercury
[10] Compounds of mercury are given this name. One including silver, copper, and tin is commonly used in
dental fillings.
ANSWER: amalgam
[10] These compounds that have a sulfur-hydrogen functional group were originally called mercaptans,
because of their high reactivity with mercury.
ANSWER: thiols
051-09-6-11206

7. Name these figures in Latin American poetry, for 10 points each.
[10] This man wrote the romantic Twenty Love Poems and a Song of Despair and a collection of political
poems about the South American landscape, Canto General (hen-ur-AHL).
ANSWER: Pablo Neruda
[10] This author analyzed the Mexican national character in The Labyrinth of Solitude and described a
"poplar of water" in his poem about an Aztec calendar, "Sun Stone."
ANSWER: Octavio Paz
[10] Chilean poet Gabriela Mistral wrote some "sonnets to" this entity, which "comes for the archbishop" in
a Willa Cather novel and is ordered "be not proud" in a John Donne poem.
ANSWER: death
033-09-6-11207

Tournament-9 Round 11 Page 7 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

8. This organization grew out of the economic efforts of Friedrich List. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this 1830s customs union among states that spoke a certain common language.
ANSWER: the Zollverein [prompt on German Customs Union]
[10] The Zollverein was a forerunner to this country, which lost World War I under the leadership of Kaiser
Wilhelm II.
ANSWER: Germany [or German Empire; do not accept "Federal Republic of Germany"]
[10] The unification of Germany occurred after the conclusion of this conflict, in which Napoleon III's loss
at Sedan caused Alsace-Lorraine to change sides.
ANSWER: the Franco-Prussian War [or Franco-German War; prompt on 1870 War]
026-09-6-11208

9. This doubly-membraned organelle has its own DNA. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this ATP-producing organelle, the power plant of the cell.
ANSWER: mitochondria
[10] The folds of the inner mitochondrial membrane increase its surface area and are known by this name.
ANSWER: cristae
[10] The Krebs cycle, which takes place in the mitochondrial matrix, yields this compound as its first
product. That cycle is sometimes named after this acid.
ANSWER: citric acid [or citrate]
025-09-6-11209

10. Name these Beat Generation writers, for 10 points each.
[10] This author of The Dharma Bums wrote about Sal Paradise and Dean Moriarty's jaunts around the
continent in On the Road.
ANSWER: Jack Kerouac
[10] The character of Carlo Marx in On the Road is based on this real-life Beat author of "A Supermarket in
California" and a poem about how he saw the best minds of his generation destroyed by madness.
ANSWER: Allen Ginsberg
[10] This author of "A Coney Island of the Mind" operated San Francisco's City Lights Bookstore.
ANSWER: Lawrence Ferlinghetti
025-09-6-11210

11. A well known example is the electron. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these elementary particles that, like quarks, are fundamental building blocks for other subatomic
particles.
ANSWER: leptons
[10] These leptons with a very tiny mass were first detected by Cowan and Reines. They are now detected at
the Super-Kamiokande observatory.
ANSWER: neutrino
[10] This is the most massive lepton and is about 17 times more massive than the muon.
ANSWER: tauon [or tau lepton]
001-09-6-11211

Tournament-9 Round 11 Page 8 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

12. Egbert van der Poel captured this city as it lay in ruins after a 1654 gunpowder store explosion. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this Dutch city, the base of Pieter de Hooch, which is best known in art for a "view" of it from
across the river at 8 in the morning, with its buildings casting shadows.
ANSWER: Delft
[10] The View of Delft was executed by this Dutch genre painter of interior scenes, such as The Milkmaid,
Woman Holding a Balance, and Girl with a Pearl Earring.
ANSWER: Johannes Vermeer [or Jan Vermeer]
[10] One Vermeer painting depicts a woman in front of a painting playing this instrument. Pablo Picasso
executed paintings of several old and young players of this instrument.
ANSWER: guitar
020-09-6-11212

13. The highest deities in this belief system are known as the Three Pure Ones. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Chinese religion whose name means "the path." It was founded by the semi-historical Laozi
(LOUT-zee).
ANSWER: Daoism [or Taoism]
[10] Daoism uses this pair of terms to describe the opposing forces of male versus female and light versus
darkness. These concepts are often represented by a circle containing black parts and white parts.
ANSWER: Yin and Yang [do not prompt on partial answer; either order acceptable]
[10] A central tenet of Daoism is this principle of "action through inaction," often explained by analogy with
water.
ANSWER: wu-wei
015-09-6-11213

14. One author from this country wrote the play Accidental Death of an Anarchist; another was a
Hermeticist who wrote the collection Cuttlefish Bones. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this country, the home of those authors, Eugenio Montale (ah-oo-JEH-nee-oh mon-TAH-lay) and
Dario Fo.
ANSWER: Italy
[10] In this Italian play, set partially in Madame Pace's shop, the boy never speaks before shooting himself
with a revolver at the end.
ANSWER: Six Characters in Search of an Author [or _Sei personaggi in cerca d'autore]
[10] This author of Six Characters in Search of an Author wrote about a gambler who changes places with a
dead man in The Late Mattia Pascal.
ANSWER: Luigi Pirandello
015-09-6-11214

15. This thinker based his philosophy on the principles of contradiction and sufficient reason. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this German philosopher, who argued that God is a perfect being who only acts for the best
causes in his book Theodicy. He also developed differential calculus independently of Isaac Newton.
ANSWER: Gottfried Wilhelm Liebniz
[10] Liebniz believed that all of physical reality consists of these simple substances, which are "windowless"
and indivisible.
ANSWER: monads
[10] Liebniz criticized this French philosopher for arguing that matter consists of extension. This namesake
of a coordinate system asserted "I think, therefore, I am" in his Discourse on Method.
ANSWER: Rene Descartes
004-09-6-11215
Tournament-9 Round 11 Page 9 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

16. This document was originally written by Heinrich Abeken, who described an encounter with Vincent
Benedetti. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this 1870 document, which rejected the Duc de Gramont's demands that the Hohenzollern Prince
Leopold never be considered for the throne of Spain.
ANSWER: Ems Telegram [or Ems Dispatch]
[10] This "Iron Chancellor," who unified Germany, edited the Ems Dispatch to be more inflammatory.
ANSWER: Otto von Bismarck
[10] Bismarck edited the Ems Telegram so that it appeared that this first Kaiser of Germany had insulted
Benedetti.
ANSWER: Wilhelm I [or Wilhelm the Great; or William I; prompt on Wilhelm; prompt on William]
003-09-6-11216

17. This term refers to songs such as "Body and Soul" and "On Green Dolphin Street" that are widely
performed. For 10 points each:
[10] Give this term for songs that are entrenched in the jazz repertoire.
ANSWER: standards
[10] The most widely performed standard originally written by a jazz musician, "Round Midnight," was
composed by this bebop pianist with the unusual middle name "sphere," whose other works include "Straight
No Chaser."
ANSWER: Thelonius Sphere Monk
[10] This alto saxophonist, another pioneer of bebop, was known as "Bird." He used the jazz standard
"Cherokee Indian Love Song" as the basis for his song "Ko-ko."
ANSWER: Charlie Parker
003-09-6-11217

18. This order developed an early form of European banking. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this medieval order, founded in the twelfth century to protect Christian pilgrims journeying to
Jerusalem. Their soldiers wore red crosses into battle during the Crusades.
ANSWER: Knights Templar
[10] This French king arrested the members of the Knights Templar in 1307, and ordered the group's final
Grand Master, Jacques de Molay, burned at the stake in 1314.
ANSWER: Philip the Fair [or Philip IV; or Philip le Bel; prompt on Philip]
[10] The forces of the Knights Templar were crushed by the Mamluk cavalry before this 1187 victory for
Saladin, that resulted in the fall of the Kingdom of Jerusalem.
ANSWER: Battle of the Horns of Hattin
004-09-6-11218

19. Name these Egyptian goddesses, for 10 points each.
[10] This fertility goddess and mother of Horus re-assembled her consort Osiris.
ANSWER: Isis
[10] This cow goddess became incredibly bloodthirsty as Sekhmet, but returned to her normal calm self after
drinking copious amounts of beer.
ANSWER: Hathor
[10] This goddess was similar to Wadjet and was depicted as a cat.
ANSWER: Bastet
015-09-6-11219

Tournament-9 Round 11 Page 10 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

20. The action in this novel is sparked by the death of Billy Bones. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this book, in which there is a mutiny on the Hispaniola.
ANSWER: Treasure Island
[10] This author of The Master of Ballantrae and Kidnapped wrote Treasure Island.
ANSWER: Robert Louis Stevenson
[10] This protagonist of Kidnapped is sold by his uncle Ebenezer but survives with the help of the outlaw
Alan Breck.
ANSWER: David Balfour [or David Balfour]
015-09-6-11220

21. This case arose from an incident in which the plaintiff purposefully got himself arrested by boarding a
railroad car in which he was not legally permitted. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this 1896 Supreme Court case, which established the precedent of "separate but equal" racial
treatment.
ANSWER: Plessy v. Ferguson [or Ferguson v. Plessy]
[10] This justice's solitary dissent in Plessy argued that "Our constitution is color-blind and neither knows
nor tolerates classes among citizens."
ANSWER: John Marshall Harlan
[10] The precedent established in Plessy was reversed unanimously in this 1954 case, which was argued for
the plaintiffs by Thurgood Marshall and resulted in the desegregation of publis schools.
ANSWER: Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka, Kansas
043-09-6-11221

22. In rare cases, this can cause Addison's Disease, and its diagnosis is confirmed with a Western blot test.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this retrovirus, often treated with a cocktail of drugs like AZT.
ANSWER: HIV [or Human Immunodeficiency Virus; do not accept "AIDS"; do not accept "Acquired
Immune Deficiency Syndrome"]
[10] HIV infects these cells, which are marked with the CD4 protein. In a normal immune system, they
release interleukin-2 to activate the "killer" form of these cells.
ANSWER: Helper T cells [or effector T cells; prompt on lymphocytes; prompt on white blood cells]
[10] This sarcoma is caused by a herpes virus, and is a characteristic opportunistic disease associated with
infection by HIV.
ANSWER: Kaposi's sarcoma
051-09-6-11222

Tournament-9 Round 11 Page 11 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

