Tournament-9
Round 15
Tossups
1. Wilson's theorem states that, for a prime number p, this function of the quantity p plus one is
congruent to negative one modulo p, and the Stirling approximation approximates this function for
large values. This function appears in the denominators of terms of the Taylor series and is
generalized by the (*) gamma function. This function gives the number of ways to arrange n distinct
objects. For 10 points, name this function, which for a number n is equal to the product of all of the positive
integers less than or equal to n.
ANSWER: factorial
025-09-6-15102

2. On the left of this painting, a man covers his face with his hands, and three dead bodies like in the
bottom left corner. The action of this painting is illuminated in-scene by an enormous lantern. Along
with its companion (*) piece, The Charge of the Mamelukes, it depicts Spanish resistance to Napoleon's
forces. A line of men in black hats point their muskets at the central figure, a man in a white shirt with arms
raised. For 10 points, name this painting depicting "The Execution of the Defenders of Madrid" on the
namesake day, a work of Francisco de Goya.
ANSWER: The Third of May, 1808
025-09-6-15103

3. The hyperbolic version of this function is e to the x plus e to the negative x, all over two, and the dot
product of two vectors is equal to the product of the length of the vectors multiplied by this function of
the angle between them. A generalization of the (*) Pythagorean Theorem to non-right triangles includes
this function and is known as its namesake "law." Its reciprocal is the secant function. For 10 points, name
this trigonometric function, often represented as the ratio of the adjacent side to the hypotenuse in a right
triangle.
ANSWER: cosine
025-09-6-15104

4. This poet wrote "unweave a rainbow, as it erewhile made" in a work where Lycius dies after the
serpent aspect of Lamia is revealed. He wrote about a "season of mists and mellow fruitfulness" in
"To Autumn," and set another poem in an "elfin grot" where a knight has a vision of (*) "pale kings
and princes." Besides writing "La Belle Dame Sans Merci," this author addressed another work to an
"unravished bride of quietness" and stated that "Beauty is truth, truth beauty." For 10 points, name this
Romantic poet of "Ode on a Grecian Urn."
ANSWER: John Keats
020-09-6-15105

5. This man stated that the value of freedom was the presence of the "power to be an individualized
self" in The Public and Its Problems. This man was cited as the last worthwhile American philosopher
by Richard Rorty, largely due to the social commitment that this man demonstrated in a work that
defines the goal of (*) schooling as socialization. For 10 points, name this philosopher who exerted
enormous influence on contemporary theories of education by writing the book Democracy and Education.
ANSWER: John Dewey
030-09-6-15106

Tournament-9 Round 15 Page 1 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. One poet from this country described the color of the vowels as "A black, E white, I red, O blue, U
green." A medieval poet from this country asked "where are the snows of yesteryear?" in his poem
The Ballad of Dead Ladies." Another poet from this country included his poems "The Swan" and
"The Litanies of Satan" in a collection divided into sections such as "Death," "Revolt," and "Spleen
and Ideal," entitled The (*) Flowers of Evil. A novelist from this country wrote about Captain Nemo in
Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea. For 10 points, name this European country, the home to Arthur
Rimbaud (ram-bo), Charles Baudelaire, and Jules Verne.
ANSWER: France [or the French Republic; or Republique francaise]
004-09-6-15107

7. A namesake bird of this island is the flightless "Native-hen." The northwest portion of this island
features the large rain forest named the Tarkine. This island once was home to the Thylacine, now
thought to be extinct. That animal, this island's eponymous (*) "Tiger," featured a pouch on both sexes.
This island also features a namesake "oak," which is actually a eucalyptus tree. It is separated from a larger
island by the Bass Strait. For 10 points, name this island with capital at Hobart, a state of Australia perhaps
best known for its namesake "Devil."
ANSWER: Tasmania
052-09-6-15108

8. William Howard Russell served as the first war correspondent in newspaper history while covering
this conflict. Camillo di Cavour sent troops to this war from the Kingdom of Sardinia to gain leverage
for the Italian unification movement. This conflict saw one side form the "thin red line" at the Battle
of (*) Balaklava, where the Earl of Cardigan ordered the "charge of the light brigade." For 10 points, name
this war of the 1850s, in which France, Great Britain, and the Ottoman Empire fought Russia over the
namesake peninsula.
ANSWER: Crimean War
030-09-6-15109

9. One response to this experiment used milk and crackers over a course of two months under the
direction of Mary Cover Jones. Burning newspaper was used in this experiment, during which one
man wore a Santa Claus mask. Rosalie Rayner helped run this experiment, whose subject lived in the
Harriet Lane Hospital. That subject of this experiment heard a (*) hammer strike a steel bar at specific
times. For 10 points, name this classical conditioning experiment that taught a little boy to fear furry
animals, and was run by John B. Watson.
ANSWER: Little Albert experiment [or Albert B. experiment]
023-09-6-15110

10. Works in this musical form include Julius Fucik's Entry of the Gladiators. Jeremiah Clarke's
"trumpet voluntary" is also known as the "Prince of Denmark's" one of these. Johann Strauss senior
composed one named for Radetzky. Felix Mendelssohn wrote one for the (*) wedding in A Midsummer
Night’s Dream . Ones by an American composer include the Washington Post and The Stars and Stripes
Forever. For 10 points, name this kind of composition, which John Philip Sousa often composed for military
bands.
ANSWER: marches
004-09-6-15111

Tournament-9 Round 15 Page 2 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

11. The longest-reigning twentieth-century dictator of this country lost American support after
attempting to kill Venezuelan president Rómulo Betancourt, and was ultimately assassinated in a
machine-gun attack on a motorcade. Previously, that dictator of this country had massacred every
inhabitant who could not (*) pronounce the Spanish word for "parsley" correctly. Rafael Trujillo was the
ruler of this present-day country, which, in 1492, was where Columbus first landed in the New World. For
10 points, name this country that, in 1844, won independence from the country that it shares the island of
Hispaniola with, Haiti.
ANSWER: Dominican Republic [or La Republica Dominicana; do not accept "Dominica"]
003-09-6-15112

12. One of this man's works imagines "faith in their hands shall snap in two" and states "Dead men
naked they shall be no one." Another of his poems states "Time held me green and dying though I
sang in my chains like the sea." In addition to (*) "Death Shall Have No Dominion" and "Fern Hill," this
author imagined "words had forked no lightning," and "blind eyes" that "blaze like meteors," and states "Old
age should burn and rave at close of day." For 10 points, name this poet that urged "Rage, Rage Against the
Dying of the Light," in his "Do Not Go Gentle Into That Good Night."
ANSWER: Dylan Thomas
033-09-6-15113

13. Pausanius claims that the original group of these figures had three members, including Aoide
(ay-OH-id-ay). Three of them, Nete (NEE-tee), Mese (MAY-see), and Hypate (HIP-uh-tay), were the
only three worshiped at Delphi. The footfalls of Pegasus were said to have created their fountain
Hippocrene (hip-AH-cruh-nee), which was located on a mountain sacred to them, Helicon. They also
spent time at Mount (*) Parnassus. Their ranks included Euterpe (YOU-ter-pay) and Clio, whose respective
domains were music and history. For 10 points, name these Greek goddesses who inspired artistic creation.
ANSWER: the Muses
026-09-6-15114

14. Amino acids are least soluble at the isoelectric point, a point on the curve associated with this lab
technique. Finding the end point for this lab technique requires substances like (*) phenolphthalein and
litmus, which are known as indicators. The curve associated with this technique has an inflection point when
the amount of a reagent added from a buret is the same as the amount of analyte in the sample; that point is
the equivalence point. For 10 points, name this technique that is used to determine the unknown
concentration of a known reactant.
ANSWER: titration [or titration curve]
026-09-6-15115

15. He fathered Vidar with the giantess Grid, and has only one eye because he traded the other for a
drink from the Well of Wisdom. He has two wolves named Geri and Freki and two (*) ravens named
Huginn and Muninn, and he can see the entire world from Hlidskalf (LID-skalf), his throne. He will be
killed by Fenrir at Ragnarok, and owns the horse Sleipnir, the spear Gungnir, and the ring Draupnir. For 10
points, name this chief god of the Norse pantheon.
ANSWER: Odin [or Wotan]
025-09-6-15116

Tournament-9 Round 15 Page 3 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

16. One of these actions planned to avoid Methodists, Quakers, and Frenchmen and was broken up by
the then-governor of Virginia, James Monroe. Another of these actions may have organized nine
thousand men around Charleston before its organizer was hanged. Unlike the abortive ones of (*)
Gabriel Prosser and Denmark Vesey, one of these events that actually started killed sixty whites in
Southampton County. For 10 points, name these events, including Nat Turner's, that targeted a "peculiar
institution" in the antebellum South.
ANSWER: slave rebellions [accept equivalents; prompt on rebellions or equivalent answers]
023-09-6-15117

17. The iroha (ear-oh-ha) poem uses every character in this language exactly once. A thirty-six-line
poetic form that developed in this language requires two verses about blossoms and three verses about
the moon. That form, (*) kasen (kah-sen), is one type of this language's "linked poems," which evolved
from this language's aristocratic renga (renn-guh) poetry. Another of this language's literary forms, the
zuihitsu, (zwee-heet-sue) was used to write The Pillow Book by Sei Shonagon (sai show-nuh-gawn). For 10
points, name this language, which was also used in the medieval novel The Tale of Genji.
ANSWER: Japanese [or Nihongo]
004-09-6-15118

18. Survivors of this battle were defeated two weeks later at the Battle of Cape Ortega, and one side
here should have been commanded by Francois Etienne de Rosily. At this battle, Cuthbert
Collingwood led one column in the Royal Sovereign, and Federico Gravina led the smaller of the two
allied fleets here. The flagship Bucentaure was captured along with Admiral (*) Villeneuve, although
the victorious commander here died onboard the HMS Victory. For 10 points, name this 1805 defeat of the
Franco-Spanish fleet by the British under Horatio Nelson.
ANSWER: Battle of Trafalgar
035-09-6-15119

19. One character in this work tells Mollie that ribbons are badges of slavery. In another part of this
novel, Moses comforts himself with the fantasy that there are seven Sundays a week in the Sugarcandy
Mountain. Another character thinks that the solution to everything is "I will (*) work harder" and is
sent to "retirement" at a glue factory. In this work, which features the lovable Boxer, the sheep mindlessly
repeat the slogan, "Four legs good, two legs bad." For 10 points, Snowball and Napoleon represent Trotsky
and Stalin, respectively, in what allegorical work by George Orwell?
ANSWER: Animal Farm
034-09-6-15120

20. Integrating a streamline path for Euler's Equation gives this statement. The simplified form of this
statement often omits the rho-p-z term. The equation of continuity and this statement help to explain
the (*) Venturi Effect, and Torricelli's Law is a special case of this principle. This principle states that an
increase in velocity of a fluid causes a decrease in its pressure due to the conservation of energy, and this
statement helps explain lift. For 10 points, name this principle of fluid dynamics named after a Swiss
mathematician.
ANSWER: Bernoulli's Principle
036-09-6-15121

Tournament-9 Round 15 Page 4 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

21. According to legend, this leader wielded the powerful "sword of Mars." This leader died of a
terrible nosebleed the day after marrying Ildiko. He forced Theodosius to sign the Third Peace of
Anatolius. This leader was convinced by (*) Pope Leo I to end his invasion of Italy. This leader lost the
Battle of Chalons to the combined forces of the Romans and Visigoths. This leader took sole power in his
empire after the death of his brother Bleda in 445 CE, and became known as the "scourge of God." For 10
points, name this leader of the Huns.
ANSWER: Attila the Hun
004-09-6-15122

22. This class of hormones is synthesized via ent-kaurene. Lack of this diterpinoid acid can cause
dwarfism in some plants. In grapevines this hormone is responsible for the development of tendrils,
and it promotes femaleness in corn. It was first identified by Eiichi (*) Kurosawa, who was studying
"foolish seedling" disease in rice. For 10 points, name this plant hormone that promotes plant growth,
flowering, and stem elongation.
ANSWER: gibberellins
051-09-6-15123

23. This author's characteristic style was parodied in Nathanael West's novel A Cool Million. One
character created by this author is taught how to read by Fosdick and is given a new suit by Frank
Whitney. This author of Paul the Peddler and (*) Mark, the Match Boy wrote many books in which a
greedy banker agrees to buy a poor family's only cow, as well as books about poor orphans like Richard
Hunter, who rise in status by hard work and thrift. For 10 points, name this American author of Ragged Dick
, as well as numerous other "rags to riches" books.
ANSWER: Horatio Alger
004-09-6-15124

Tournament-9 Round 15 Page 5 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

Tournament-9
Round 15
Bonuses
1. One theory of this concept was criticized by Carol Gilligan and divides the development of it into
pre-conventional, conventional, and post-conventional stages. For 10 points each;
[10] Name this concept, which has a namesake "hazard" in economics and involves good and bad deeds.
ANSWER: morality [do not accept or prompt on "ethics"]
[10] The aforementioned theory of moral development was created by this man.
ANSWER: Lawrence Kohlberg
[10] This other psychologist proposed a theory of moral development in The Moral Development of the
Child, but he may be better-known for a four-stage theory of cognitive development.
ANSWER: Jean Piaget
038-09-6-15201

2. For 10 points each, name these structures involved in DNA replication.
[10] This enzyme unzips the DNA double helix, allowing for replication of each strand.
ANSWER: DNA helicase
[10] These short DNA fragments on the lagging strand result because DNA polymerase only proceeds in the
five prime to three prime direction.
ANSWER: Okazaki fragments
[10] The 2009 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine was awarded partially for the discovery of this reverse
transcriptase, which adds TTAGGG repeats to the end of chromosomes.
ANSWER: telomerase
003-09-6-15202

3. This poet wrote "Stop all the clocks" in "Funeral Blues" and authored The Ascent of F6 with Christopher
Isherwood. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this poet, who opens another poem in "one of the dives, On Fifty-second Street." That poem
contains the line "we must love one another or die," and is titled "September 1, 1939."
ANSWER: Wystan Hugh Auden
[10] Auden also wrote a poem "in memory of" this Irish poet, whose celebrated works include "Easter,
1916," "Sailing to Byzantium," and the apocalyptic "The Second Coming."
ANSWER: William Butler Yeats
[10] Another Auden poem, "Musee des Beaux Arts," [moo-SEE day BO-ZAR] describes a Breughel
painting of this Greek figure drowning in the sea after his wax wings have melted.
ANSWER: Icarus
020-09-6-15203

4. Name these types of forces, for 10 points each.
[10] This force is exerted by a surface on an object lying on that surface. It is perpendicular to the surface
itself.
ANSWER: normal force
[10] This fictitious force explains why cyclones rotate in different directions in the Northern and Southern
Hemispheres.
ANSWER: Coriolis force
[10] This force that is reduced by lubricants opposes motion and comes in static and kinetic varieties.
ANSWER: friction
025-09-6-15204

Tournament-9 Round 15 Page 6 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

5. He is a rival of Tezcatlipoca (TETZ-cat-lee-POKE-uh). For 10 points each:
[10] Name this "feathered-serpent" god, who was the twin brother of Xolotl (zow-LOT-ul) and giver of
maize to humanity.
ANSWER: Quetzalcoatl (ket-sil-co-AT-ul)
[10] Quetzalcoatl was worshipped by these Mesoamerican people. They occasionally sacrificed humans to
the rain god Tlaloc.
ANSWER: Aztecs
[10] This Aztec hummingbird god was thought to have been the son of a ball of feathers that impregnated
Coatlicue (coh-AT-lee-cue).
ANSWER: Huitzilopochtli (WEET-see-lo-POTCH-lee)
015-09-6-15205

6. This battle included the sinking of the Yorktown and the first chance for the American forces to capitalize
on the recent cracking of the Japanese communications code. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this early June, 1942 battle which took place between the battles of the Coral Sea and
Gaudalcanal in the Pacific campaign.
ANSWER: Battle of Midway
[10] The American strategy at Midway was coordinated by this fleet admiral, the commander-in-chief of
Pacific forces throughout the war.
ANSWER: Chester William Nimitz
[10] The Hornet arrived at the Battle of Midway just five weeks after being used to stage this general’s
namesake bombing “raid” on Japanese cities.
ANSWER: James Doolittle
019-09-6-15206

7. This artist excitingly combined both a fruit bowl and a flower vase in his Still Life, Flowers. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this leader of Fauvism, whose more dynamic works include The Dance, The Red Room, and The
Joy of Life.
ANSWER: Henri Matisse
[10] Like Massacio, and unlike Henry Matisse, this artist created a painting called The Tribute Money. He
may be better known for The Anatomy Lesson and The Night Watch.
ANSWER: Rembrandt van Rijn
[10] Matisse's Still Life, Flowers, Rembrandt's Night Watch, and native artist Tom Thomson's The Jack Pine
are all housed in the National Gallery of this country.
ANSWER: Canada
024-09-6-15207

8. This conflict began with the siege of the Dalmatian city of Zara. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this conflict that lasted from 1202 to 1204, during which a force of Christians set off to retake the
Holy Land but instead captured Constantinople.
ANSWER: the Fourth Crusade
[10] One of the prominent leaders of the Fourth Crusade was Enrico Dandolo, who was a doge of the
republic of this Italian city.
ANSWER: Most Serene Republic of Venice [or Venesia; or Venetian Republic]
[10] Another of the leaders of the Fourth Crusade was Louis I, a Count from this French city, which was also
the hometown of English king Stephen.
ANSWER: Blois (blwah)
026-09-6-15208

Tournament-9 Round 15 Page 7 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

9. Name these disputed territories, for 10 points each.
[10] This region in northern Israel is home to Mount Hermon, the ghost town of Kuneitra, and the Shebaa
Farms.
ANSWER: Golan Heights [or Ramat HaGolan; or Hadbatu I-Jawlan]
[10] This polity has its capital at Tskhinvali and is home to the Liakhvi River. In 2008, Georgia and Russia
fought a brief war over control of this territory.
ANSWER: South Ossetia [or Xussar Iryston; or Yuzhnaya Osetiya; or Samxret Oseti; do not prompt on
partial answers]
[10] Igor Smirnov's PMR organization exercises de-facto independent control over Transnistria, which is
formally part of this Eastern European country governed from Chi?in?u.
ANSWER: Republic of Moldova
038-09-6-15209

10. He included the electrician Bayard in his play Incident at Vichy. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this American author, who wrote about Biff, Happy, and the flute-playing Ben in another play.
ANSWER: Arthur Miller
[10] This husband of Linda and brother of Ben is the protagonist of Miller's Death of a Salesman.
ANSWER: Willy Loman [or Willy Loman]
[10] In this Miller play, Joe Keller kills himself after the revelation that the deaths of twenty-one pilots were
due to faulty airplane parts he shipped.
ANSWER: All My Sons
015-09-6-15210

11. The second work in this series shows a palace in the clouds, while the third shows dark clouds over a
boat approaching some rapids. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this series of four paintings that shows the transition from Childhood to Old Age.
ANSWER: The Voyage of Life
[10] The Voyage of Life is by Thomas Cole, an artist of this group of American landscape artists that also
included Asher Durand and Albert Bierstadt. It was named for the New York waterway whose valley
provided many settings for artists of this school.
ANSWER: Hudson River School
[10] This Hudson River school artist painted Mount Katahdin from Millinocket Camp, but is better known
for his work in Ecuador, including Cotopaxi and Heart of the Andes.
ANSWER: Frederick Edwin Church
036-09-6-15211

12. Name these British comedic novelists, for 10 points each.
[10] This author wrote multiple novels about “smith with a P,” but achieved more fame for creating Drone
Club member Bertie Wooster and resourceful butler Jeeves.
ANSWER: Pelham Grenville Wodehouse
[10] Lady Carlotta pretends to teach history by the “Schartz-Metterklume Method” in a story by this author
of “Sredni Vashtar,” The Unbearable Bassington, and “The Open Window.”
ANSWER: Saki [or Hector Hugh Munro]
[10] This eighteenth century clergyman’s satires include A Tale of a Tub, a recommendation to eat Irish
children in “A Modest Proposal,” and Gulliver’s Travels .
ANSWER: Jonathan Swift
019-09-6-15212

Tournament-9 Round 15 Page 8 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

13. The Norns live beneath this place, and the snake Nidhogg gnaws at its roots. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this world tree of Norse mythology.
ANSWER: Yggdrasil
[10] Among the residents of Yggdrasil is Ratatosk, an example of this animal. Because Ratatosk carries
insults between an eagle who lives atop Yggdrasil and Nidhogg, he is known as this animal "of discord."
ANSWER: a squirrel
[10] Duneyrr, Dvalinn, Durapror, and Dainn are these types of creatures. They represent the wind and eat
Yggdrasil's buds.
ANSWER: deer [or stags; or harts; or other equivalents]
030-09-6-15213

14. In this painting, one man sits with his back to the viewer, while another man in a seersucker suit and a
woman in a red dress sit next to each other. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this painting, featuring three people sitting under an ad for five-cent cigars.
ANSWER: Nighthawks
[10] In this Gottfried Helnwien work, the anonymous characters from Nighthawks are replaced with Elvis
Presley, James Dean, Humphrey Bogart and Marilyn Monroe.
ANSWER: Boulevard of Broken Dreams
[10] This artist who painted Chop Suey and Early Sunday Morning, as well as Nighthawks.
ANSWER: Edward Hopper
051-09-6-15214

15. It is disputed whether the word "the" should precede this phrase used to describe "the masses." For 10
points each:
[10] Give this two-word phrase, from the Greek for "the majority."
ANSWER: hoi polloi
[10] The controversy over using "the" before "hoi polloi"played out in a scene in this film, in which an
English teacher played by Robin Williams convinces the title group to "seize the day."
ANSWER: Dead Poets Society
[10] The introduction of the phrase "hoi polloi" into American English is credited to this author, who also
introduced Natty Bumppo in his Leatherstocking Tales.
ANSWER: James Fenimore Cooper
003-09-6-15215

16. The fortunes of this military entity were marred by the death of its original commander, Marques de
Santa Cruz. Command was then given to Medina Sidonia. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Spanish invasion force, that was defeated near Gravelines in 1588.
ANSWER: Spanish Armada
[10] This sea dog was instrumental in England's defeat of the Armada. In 1587, this man destroyed thirty
Spanish ships in a raid in Cadiz harbor. His ship was the Golden Hind.
ANSWER: Francis Drake
[10] This English slave trader was also a key commander against the Armada. He pretended to offer his
services to Spain in 1571 in a reconnaissance mission, and he commanded the Victory against the Armada.
ANSWER: John Hawkins
030-09-6-15216

Tournament-9 Round 15 Page 9 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

17. Diophantine equations admit only these types of numbers as solutions. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this set of numbers that is often represented by a boldface Z, the set of all positive and negative
numbers that can be written without fractions or decimal points.
ANSWER: integers [do not accept "natural numbers"; do not accept "counting numbers"]
[10] Complex numbers of the form a plus b i are often known as this man's "integers." Legend has it that as a
youth he was able to add the numbers from one to one hundred in his head in a matter of seconds.
ANSWER: Carl Friedrich Gauss
[10] Gauss published the first correct proof of this theorem, which states that all non-constant polynomials
with real or complex coefficients have at least one root.
ANSWER: Fundamental Theorem of Algebra
025-09-6-15217

18. This author recalls addressing some of her entries to characters in the Joop ter Heul novel series. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this Dutch author, who fell in love with Peter van Pels and lived in hiding during Nazi
occupation. Her writings were later published as The Diary of a Young Girl.
ANSWER: Annelies Marie "Anne" Frank
[10] Another significant work of Holocaust literature is this novel by Elie Wiesel, which recounts his loss of
faith in God and his time spent in Auschwitz and Buchenwald.
ANSWER: Night [or Un di Velt Hot Geshwign; or And the World Remained Silent]
[10] Wiesel's book was initially written in this Germanic language, commonly spoken by Jews in the area.
Other important writers in this language are Sholem Aleichem and Isaac Singer.
ANSWER: Yiddish
020-09-6-15218

19. One leader of this country fought a civil war against Alexander Petion, and lived in the posh palace of La
Ferriere. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this country, once led by Henri Christophe, who declared himself its emperor in 1811.
ANSWER: Haiti
[10] Along with Jean-Jacques Dessalines and Henri Christophe, this man was a leader of the Haitian revolt
against France. He defeated French forces under Charles Leclerc in 1802 but was taken prisoner by the
French and died in a dungeon.
ANSWER: Toussaint Louverture [or François Dominique Toussaint]
[10] Members of this family led Haiti from 1957 to 1971. The patriarch, "Papa Doc," was known for his
practice of voodoo and for his feared secret police, the Tonton Macoutes (mah-KOOT).
ANSWER: Duvalier
030-09-6-15219

20. For 10 points each, name these composers of tone poems.
[10] This German composer created a large number of tone poems, including Don Quixote and Also Sprach
Zarathustra.
ANSWER: Richard Strauss [prompt on Strauss]
[10] This composer used the C, F sharp tritone extensively in the fourth of his seven symphonies. He wrote
the tone poems En Saga and The Swan of Tuonela.
ANSWER: Jean Sibelius
[10] This French composer depicted skeletons dancing to a waltz played by Death in his tone poem Danse
Macabre. He also composed Carnival of the Animals.
ANSWER: Camille Saint-Saens
004-09-6-15220

Tournament-9 Round 15 Page 10 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

21. In this novel, the protagonist's wife Mildred swallows a bottle of sleeping pills, and turns her husband in
to people who use a "mechanical hound." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this novel about Guy Montag.
ANSWER: Fahrenheit 451 [prompt on The Fireman]
[10] _Fahrenheit 451_ is a book by this author of The Martian Chronicles. He also wrote a collection of
short stories that relate to a circus performer who is tattooed by a witch, The Illustrated Man.
ANSWER: Ray Douglas Bradbury
[10] This Bradbury novel is set in Green Town, Illinois. It includes the failure of Leo Aufmann’s
"Happiness Machine"” and is about Doug Spaulding’s experiences in 1928.
ANSWER: Dandelion Wine
027-09-6-15221

22. For 10 points each, identify these European leaders who didn't lead for very long.
[10] He succeeded Leonid Brezhnev as Soviet leader and was himself succeeded by the equally short-termed
Konstantin Chernenko.
ANSWER: Yuri Andropov
[10] Hitler named this admiral to be the next President of the Reich, but he was arrested by the Allies after
ruling for a month.
ANSWER: Karl Doenitz
[10] His father, George V, said he 'will ruin himself in twelve months.' Exceeding expectations, he abdicated
after ten and a half months.
ANSWER: Edward VIII [prompt on Edward]
047-09-6-15222

Tournament-9 Round 15 Page 11 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

