Tournament-8
Round 10
Tossups
1. A pronominal phenomenon known as voseo occurs in some dialects of this language. The word for
"or" in this language undergoes a sound change when it precedes a word starting with an O sound.
The imperfect subjunctive has two interchangeable conjugations, one ending in (*) –ra and one ending
in –se, and there are two verbs for "to be," ser and estar. For 10 points, name this Romance language spoken
in countries like Cuba and Argentina.
ANSWER: Spanish [or español; or castellano]
024-09-4-10102

2. This author satirized the Catholic Church by describing the noise made by the popehawk and the
bishophawks on Ringing Island. This author unfavorably contrasted official dogmas with a fictional
religious institution whose motto is "Do as you will," the Abbey of Theleme. One of this author's
characters is taught a humanistic education by Ponocrates after climbing Notre Dame and (*)
urinating on the crowd below, causing a massive deluge. Under the pen name Alcofribas Nasier, this author
wrote about the adventures of Friar John and Panurge in a book named for two giants. For 10 points, name
this medieval French author of Gargantua and Pantagruel.
ANSWER: Francois Rabelais
004-09-4-10103

3. The leaders of this movement derived from the Hakka, and it sought to outlaw gambling and
tobacco use. Its minister of state was killed by Wei Chang-Hui, and it suffered the desertion of Shih
Ta-Kai. Frederick Ward defended Shanghai from this rebellion, which was finally defeated with help
by the (*) Ever-Victorious Army under Charles Gordon. It grew out of the God Worshippers Society, and it
takes its name from the "Heavenly Kingdom of Great Peace." For 10 points, name this 1860s rebellion
against the Manchus, whose leader, Hong Xiuquan, thought he was the younger brother of Jesus Christ.
ANSWER: the Taiping Rebellion
026-09-4-10104

4. One author with this last name wrote a poem ending with the protagonist blowing a slug-horn after
traveling through a barren land. That author with this last name wrote "Grow old along with me! /
The best is yet to be" in "Rabbi ben Ezra," as well as the poem "Childe Roland to the Dark Tower
Came." An author with this last name described a statue sculpted by (*) Claus of Innsbruck in a poem
narrated by the Duke of Ferrara. Another author with this last name asked "How do I love thee? Let me
count the ways" in Sonnets From the Portuguese. For 10 points, give this name shared by the author of "My
Last Duchess," Robert, and his wife Elizabeth Barrett.
ANSWER: Robert and Elizabeth Barrett Browning [do not accept “Elizabeth Barrett Moulton”]
027-09-4-10105

5. This thinker claimed that all language is metaphor in "On Truth and Lies in a Non-Moral Sense."
He critiqued the "herd mentality" of previous thinkers, and wrote a philosophical autobiography with
chapters including "Why I Write Such Great Books" and "Why I am a Destiny". This author of
Human, All Too Human and (*) Ecce Homo outlined the difference between Appolonian and Dionysian
aesthetics in The Birth of Tragedy, and discussed the prophesy of the Ubermench in Also Sprach Zarathustra
. For 10 points, name this German philosopher of Beyond Good and Evil, who claimed that "God is dead."
ANSWER: Friedrich Wilhelm Nietzsche
005-09-4-10106

Tournament-8 Round 10 Page 1 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. After being goaded, this character describes winning a swimming contest over Brecca. When this
character perishes, his kinsman declares that the eleven men around him will be exiled. This avenger
of Scyld receives the Naegling after diving to a bottom of the lake and finishing his task by the ninth
hour. The protector of the (*) Heorot, this character receives the Hrunting from Unferth, and is assisted by
Wiglaf in his final fight against a dragon. For 10 points, name this Geat who slays Grendel in a namesake
Old English epic.
ANSWER: Beowulf
033-09-4-10107

7. This figure's son won Hippodomia after defeating Oenomaus in a chariot race, and his daughter
was turned into a rock on Mount Sipylus, where she is said to weep when snow melts above it.
Pindar's first Olympian ode states that this figure stole nectar and ambrosia from heaven and gave it
to the (*) mortals, and another legend states that he killed his son and fed him to the gods. For 10 points,
name this father of Niobe and Pelops who was punished by having water and fruit placed just beyond his
grasp.
ANSWER: Tantalus
030-09-4-10108

8. This effect can be used to calculate the number of free electrons in a wire by measuring the drift
velocity. A quantum version of this effect was discovered by Klaus von Klitzing. When measuring this
effect, a namesake (*) probe is calibrated using a known magnetic field strength. This effect can distinguish
between negative charges moving in one direction and positive charges moving in the other, because the
voltage differences will be opposite in magnitude. For 10 points, name this effect in which an applied
magnetic field causes a voltage difference.
ANSWER: Hall effect
003-09-4-10109

9. One mountin in this range is Mount Alvernia, and one subrange of this range is the Sibillini. A war
including the Battle of Caudine Forks, the Samnite wars, took place in this mountain range. This
range includes the Maritime Alps(*), and the tallest mountain in this range is Corno Grande. This range is
home to San Marino, and it ends in Calabria and runs through Umbria. The Tiber River flows from, for 10
points, which mountain range, often called the "backbone of Italy"?
ANSWER: Apennines
038-09-4-10110

10. In one poem, this author wrote "America it's them bad Russians" and "America I've given you all
and now I'm nothing." In another poem, this author describes grabbing a "skeleton thick" sunflower
and sticking it at his side. This author wrote "lord lord lord caw caw caw" at the end of an elegy for
his mother Naomi, (*) "Kaddish." Another of his poems repeats "I'm with you in Rockland," denounces
Moloch, and begins "I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness." For 10 points, name this
American beat generation poet of "A Supermarket in California" and "Howl."
ANSWER: Irwin Allen Ginsberg
020-09-4-10111

Tournament-8 Round 10 Page 2 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

11. One painting by this artist sees tormented souls claw at the title vessel as it carries the title
character and Virgil across the River Styx. The title character of another of his paintings lies
resignedly back as invading forces destroy his possessions(*) and kill his concubines. A third of his
works depicts two pyramidally-organized groups of Greek victims of the title event. The central figure of his
best-known work carries a musket in one hand and the tricolore in the other. For 10 points, name this artist
of The Barque of Dante, The Death of Sardanapalus, The Massacre at Chios, and Liberty Leading the
People.
ANSWER: Eugene Delacroix [or Ferdinand Victor Eugene Delacroix]
029-09-4-10112

12. This government was satirized in a painting that shows a donkey standing on a table at which two
corpulent men and four empty suits convene. It violated a multinational agreement when foreign
minister Walther Rathenau signed the Treaty of Rapallo along with Georgy Chicherin of the Soviet
Union. The inability of this government to pay war reperations led to (*) massive inflation and
devaluation of the Papiermark, and this government failed under the leadership of Paul von Hindenburg. For
10 points, name this German parliamentary government established after World War I whose collapse
helped lead to the rise of Hitler.
ANSWER: Weimar Republic [prompt on "Germany"]
032-09-4-10113

13. This architect created a system of proportion based on human measurements, the Modulor system.
He designed the Palace of Justice and numerous other buildings in Chandigarh, India. Works such as
the Notre Dame du Haut(*) chapel exemplify the five points of architecture he outlined in Towards a New
Architecture, and he is best remembered for a building in Poissy which is elevated by pilotis. For 10 points,
name this Swiss-French architect of the Villa Savoye.
ANSWER: Le Corbusier [or Charles-Edouard Jeanneret]
024-09-4-10114

14. The larval dragon fly contains a trachaea on the rectum which serves as this structure. Spiracles
often guide movement through this structure in some cartilagenous animals, and these structures are
often covered by a bony osculum. These structures make use of the (*) countercurrent exchange system
to transfer oxygen to the blood, and they are sometimes used to describe the pharyngeal slits that chordates
are born with. For 10 points, name these respiratory structures that enable fish to breathe.
ANSWER: gills
020-09-4-10115

15. One statue of this deity served as the model for Hiram Powers's sculpture The Greek Slave, and is
named for Medici. Praxiteles's sculpture of this deity standing nude and holding a drapery in one
hand was purchased by the town of Knidus. Another sculpture of this deity is attributed to
Alexandros of Antioch, and portrays this (*) goddess wearing a drapery about to slip off her hips. That
sculpture of this goddess was discovered in 1820 on the Greek island Milos, and is missing both arms. For
10 points, name this goddess of love.
ANSWER: Venus [or Aphrodite]
004-09-4-10116

Tournament-8 Round 10 Page 3 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

16. The Lewis-Randall rule is related to this law by the Gibbs-Duhem equation, and it can be derived
from the Duhem-Margules equation. The relation between the chemical potential of solute atoms and
infinite dilution is given by the proportionality constant in this law. That constant in this law is found
experimentally by measurements taken at a liquid-vapor equilibrium. It explains how divers get "the
(*) bends" and why a bottle of soda fizzes when it's opened. For 10 points, name this law that relations the
dissolved concentration of a gas to the gas's partial pressure above the solvent.
ANSWER: Henry's Law
026-09-4-10117

17. This author described the meeting of George and Sabina in Atlantic City in a play about the
Antrobus family, which survives an ice age and a flood. This author wrote a novel about the deaths of
Esteban, Uncle Pio, and the Marquesa de Montemayor. This author of (*) The Skin of Our Teeth also
wrote a play in which George Gibbs marries Emily Webb, who revisits her twelfth birthday after dying in
Grover's Corners. For 10 points, name this American author of The Bridge of San Luis Rey and Our Town.
ANSWER: Thornton Niven Wilder
036-09-4-10118

18. This man's minister Peter Barsymes established a monopoly over silk manufacture. Victories
fought by his generals include the Battle of Daraa and the the Battle of Tricamarum. This ruler paid
tribute to Khosrow I to establish an “Eternal Peace” and much of his policy was created by Tribonian.
Although he was nearly deposed for Hypatius by mobs watching (*) chariot races, Belisarius was able to
suppress the Nika Riots. He also compiled Roman laws in his namesake Code. For 10 points, name this
Byzantine emperor who commissioned the Hagia Sophia.
ANSWER: Justinian I
034-09-4-10119

19. In a highly publicized 2004 incident, a Penn State team debuted a device that used a "bellows
bounce" resonator to effect this process using sound waves. One cycle used to effect this process was
patented by Albert Einstein and Leo Szilard, and it can also be done by completely reversing the (*)
Carnot cycle. However, this process most often involves a vapor-condensation cycle using Freon or other
CFCs. For 10 points, name this process of transferring heat from an enclosed space to the warmer outside
environment, which is used in a common kitchen appliance.
ANSWER: refrigeration [or word forms like refrigerators; do not accept "cooling" or other
near-synonyms]
003-09-4-10120

20. This man lectured on the history of British juries as part of a twenty-four-hour filibuster in 1957.
In protest of a speech by Minneapolis mayor Hubert Humphrey, this man joined with Mississippi
governor Fielding Wright to run for President, picking up four states’ electoral votes in 1948 as the
(*) States Rights Democratic Party candidate. Six years later, he won election to the Senate as a write-in
candidate, for the first of eight terms. For 10 points, name this one time segregationist leader who retired at
age 100 after serving forty-eight years as a Senator from South Carolina.
ANSWER: James Strom Thurmond
019-09-4-10121

Tournament-8 Round 10 Page 4 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

21. This author wrote a poem whose speaker remembers hearing "the sea lisp[ing]" the "low and
delicious word Death" on "Paumanok's shore" as a child. Another of this author's poems lists parts of
the body before declaring "these are not the parts and poems of the Body only, but of the Soul." This
author of (*) "Out of the Cradle Endlessly Rocking" and "I Sing the Body Electric" wrote an elegy for a
man who "lies / Fallen cold and dead" as well as the poem "Song of Myself." For 10 points, name this poet
who lamented the assassination of Lincoln in "O Captain, My Captain," and wrote the collection Leaves of
Grass.
ANSWER: Walt Whitman
022-09-4-10122

Tournament-8 Round 10 Page 5 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

Tournament-8
Round 10
Bonuses
1. This artist depicted himself looking conspicuously Christ-like in his Self-Portrait in a Fur-Collared Robe.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this sixteenth-century German woodcut specialist, who also created The Four Horsemen of the
Apocalypse and incorporated a magic square into Melancolia I (one).
ANSWER: Albrecht Dürer
[10] Dürer was a major artist of this 1500 to 1615 movement, which brought revolutionary techniques from
Italy to Germany and the Low Countries, often for use in Lutheran subjects.
ANSWER: the Northern Renaissance
[10] Dürer produced an engraving of this figure "in his study" and a painting of him "in the wilderness."
Many other artists depicted him producing the Vulgate Bible.
ANSWER: St. Jerome
019-09-4-10201

2. When the two masses in this system are unequal, they experience uniform acceleration. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name these machines used to imagine physics problems; an ideal one consists of two masses m1 and m2
connected by a massless string over a massless pulley.
ANSWER: Atwood's machine
[10] The central equations needed to solve Atwood's machine problems are the three laws of motion put
forth by this Englishman; the first one talks about bodies in motion staying in motion.
ANSWER: Isaac Newton
[10] This man's formulation of classical mechanics is useful in Atwood's machine problems; the central
equations of his mechanics are often co-named for him and Euler.
ANSWER: Joseph Louis Lagrange [or Giuseppi Lodovico Lagrangia]
026-09-4-10202

3. This nation’s forces eventually fled Sevastopol during the Crimean war. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this empire that was the site of Napoleon’s brief conquest of Moscow.
ANSWER: Russia
[10] This Tsar succeeded Nicholas I, and his nation’s losses in the Crimean war inspired him to reform the
country. He freed the serfs in 1861, and was killed by a terrorist bombing.
ANSWER: Alexander II [or Alexander Nikoleyevich II Romanov]
[10] During Alexander II’s reign, this city hosted the negotiations to revise the Treaty of San Stefano. These
changes forced Russia give back some gains of the Russo-Turkish War.
ANSWER: Berlin
027-09-4-10203

Tournament-8 Round 10 Page 6 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

4. He wrote about an Abyssinian prince who meets the poet Imlac, who guides him and his sister Nekayah.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this author of Rasselas. He also wrote The Lives of the Poets and compiled a dictionary of the
English language.
ANSWER: Doctor Samuel Johnson
[10] This frequent travel companion of Johnson wrote the celebrated biography The Life of Samuel Johnson.
ANSWER: James Boswell
[10] Johnson coined this term to refer to poets such as George Herbert and Andrew Marvell, who used many
metaphors and complicated conceits in their poetry.
ANSWER: metaphysical poets
027-09-4-10204

5. As a condition of this man's will, his preserved skeleton, dressed in his own clothing and adorned with a
wax head, is displayed in a case at University College London. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this philosopher, who advocated the "greatest happiness of the greatest number" in An
Introduction to the Principles of Morals and Legislation and theorized the “panopticon.”
ANSWER: Jeremy Bentham
[10] This philosopher, who was educated in the works of Bentham before he could walk, expressed similar
views in his liberal treatises On Liberty and The Subjection of Women.
ANSWER: John Stuart Mill
[10] Bentham and Mill are the two major figures of this philosophical idea, which holds that an act’s
morality is determined by the act’s usefulness and contribution to human happiness.
ANSWER: utilitarianism
019-09-4-10205

6. This city replaced its estimo tax system with the castato system after its war with Milan during the 1420s.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Italian city that was subjected to the Bonfire of the Vanities under Savonarola
in 1498.
ANSWER: Republic of Florence [or Firenze]
[10] During much of the Renaissance, Florence was ruled by this family whose members included Cosimo
and Lorenzo the Magnificent.
ANSWER: de Medici
[10] Lorenzo's brother Giuliano was killed in a 1478 plot instigated by this rival family.
ANSWER: Pazzi
015-09-4-10206

7. This work was dedicated to the Maud children and based on a section of Henry Purcell’s Abdelazar. For
10 points each:
[10] Name this 1946 piece of educational music, which varies a theme throughout several tempos and
instruments.
ANSWER: The Young Person’s Guide to the Orchestra
[10] This composer of The Young Person’s Guide to the Orchestra worked closely with the tenor Peter
Pears on the operas The Turn of the Screw, Peter Grimes, and Billy Budd.
ANSWER: Edward Benjamin Britten
[10] Britten added poems of Wilfred Owen to the Latin text to create a “War” version of this genre. Mozart,
Verdi, and Faure also composed noted examples of this Catholic mass for the dead.
ANSWER: requiem
019-09-4-10207

Tournament-8 Round 10 Page 7 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

8. For 10 points each, name these parts of the lung.
[10] These tubes carry air into the lungs, but because they are lined with cartilage, no gas exchange can take
place in them.
ANSWER: bronchi
[10] At the end of bronchioles are bunches of these structures in which the vast majority of gas exchange
occurs.
ANSWER: alveoli [or other word forms like alveolus]
[10] This membrane's inner part covers the lungs, and its outer part is attached to the inner wall of the chest.
Surface tension in the fluid between the layers keeps the lungs partially inflated.
ANSWER: pleura
032-09-4-10208

9. This son of Laufey and Farbauti fathered Fenrir, and Jormungand with Angrboda, and he killed Otter. For
10 points each:
[10] Name this deity who shapeshifted and became the mother of Sleipnir, the trickster god of Norse
mythology.
ANSWER: Loki
[10] This loyal wife of Loki holds a bowl that catches the venom dripped by a snake above his head.
ANSWER: Sigyn
[10] This daughter of Loki owns the staff Gambantian. She is half human and half corpse and rules the
Norse underworld.
ANSWER: Hel
003-09-4-10209

10. He chronicled the demise of a merchant family in Buddenbrooks. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this German author of The Magic Mountain.
ANSWER: Thomas Mann
[10] In this Thomas Mann novel, Gustav von Aschenbach becomes infatuated with the Polish boy Tadzio
before eating some bad strawberries and expiring.
ANSWER: Death in Venice
[10] In this Thomas Mann novel, Serenus Zeitblom narrates the life of the composer Adrian Leverkuhn, who
makes a deal with the devil in order to discover the twelve-tone scale.
ANSWER: Doktor Faustus
015-09-4-10210

11. These numbers are usually plotted in an Argand plane. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these numbers that are generally expressed in the form of a plus b i.
ANSWER: complex numbers
[10] This formula relating trigonometry and complex numbers states that the cosine of x plus i times the sine
of x, all to the nth power, equals cosine n x plus i sine n x.
ANSWER: De Moivre's Theorem
[10] Converting complex numbers between polar and parametric forms requires a formula named after this
mathematician, whose identity states that e to the i pi plus one equals zero.
ANSWER: Leonhard Paul Euler
036-09-4-10211

Tournament-8 Round 10 Page 8 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

12. This author cut up phrases and rearranged the words to write The Soft Machine and The Ticket That
Exploded. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this beat author who wrote about people living in Interzone, such as Dr. Benway, in Naked
Lunch.
ANSWER: William Seward Burroughs II [or Will Lee]
[10] William S. Burroughs was the inspiration for Bull Lee, who lets Sal Paradise stay with him in this
novel. This beat novel follows Sal’s travels, often with Dean Moriarty.
ANSWER: On The Road
[10] This author wrote The Dharma Bums, as well as On The Road.
ANSWER: Jack Kerouac [or Jean Louis Lebris de Kerouac]
027-09-4-10212

13. Formerly known as New Castile, the Sierra Madre chain rises along its east, and For 10 Points Each.
[10] Name this fourth most populated island in the world, whose Bataan peninsula was sight of a famous
transportation of prisoners in World War II.
ANSWER: Luzon
[10] Luzon is the largest member of this pacific island chain, with capital at Manilla, the location of an
important battle of the Spanish-American War.
ANSWER: Philippines
[10] The second largest island in the phillipines is this island, home to the highest mountain in the country,
Mount Apo.
ANSWER: Mindanao
002-09-4-10213

14. This subfield of chemistry uses Pourbaix and Frost Diagrams, as well as a specific form of the Goldman
equation. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this area of study whose figures include Luigi Galvani and Alessandro Volta, which might
discuss reduction potentials.
ANSWER: electrical chemistry [or electrochemistry]
[10] That generalization of the Goldman equation is named after this scientist. It is commonly used to find
reduction potentials of half-cells.
ANSWER: Walter Nernst
[10] One constant in the Nernst Equation is this one, the number of coulombs per mole of electrons.
ANSWER: Faraday's Constant
033-09-4-10214

15. ?Fisher equation relates real interest and nominal interest by taking this value into account. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this indicator in microeconomics, whose sum with the unemployment rate is the misery index.
Stagnation occurred simultaneously with high value of it in the ‘70s.
ANSWER: inflation rate
[10] Although he is not the namesake, Fisher discovered this economic curve. Edmund Phelps demonstrated
that because people have rational expectations, in the long-run, this curve has a vertical rather than an
inverse shape.
ANSWER: Philips Curve
[10] Economists typically calculate the inflation rate using the change in this measure of overall price level
in an urban market.
ANSWER: Consumer Price Index
034-09-4-10215

Tournament-8 Round 10 Page 9 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

16. Founders of this movement included Leopold Senghor and Aime Cesaire. For 10 points each;
[10]Name this twentieth century African literary movement, which was criticized by Sartre in his essay
"Black Orpheus".
ANSWER: Negritude
[10] Most works of Negritude were originally published in this language. Other works originally published
in this language include The Song of Roland.
ANSWER: French
[10] This author criticized Negritude by writing "a tiger doesn't proclaim its tigritude." This Nigerian
playwright wrote The Lion and the Jewel and Death and the King's Horseman.
ANSWER: Wole Soyinka
038-09-4-10216

17. The third of these compositions is written for three violins, violas, and cellos, and a basso continuo, and
after its first movement is a two-chord long second movement. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these six Baroque compositions. The first one is the only to have a fourth movement, and they
were dedicated to a German Margrave.
ANSWER: “Brandenburg” Concertos
[10] This composer wrote the “Brandenburg” Concertos. He also wrote an aria that was manipulated in the
Goldberg Variations and he wrote Anna Magdalena’s Notebook .
ANSWER: Johann Sebastian Bach
[10] Bach’s last work is named “The Art of” this kind of composition. It opens with one voice playing a
theme, and then others playing it in different keys. Bach doubled them with many preludes and toccatas.
ANSWER: fugue [or fuge; or fuga]
027-09-4-10217

18. It may have been caused by the end of the Second Bank of the United States. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this national economic catastrophe early in the presidency of Martin Van Buren.
ANSWER: Panic of 1837
[10] The Panic of 1837 likely occurred due to the economic policies of this president. He confronted South
Carolina in the Nullification Crisis and was known as "Old Hickory."
ANSWER: Andrew Jackson
[10] This Jacksonian executive order demanded that all government lands be paid for by gold or silver and
not paper currency. It was a major cause of the Panic of 1837.
ANSWER: the Specie Circular
036-09-4-10218

19. This theory was put forth by astrophysicist and Catholic priest Georges Lemaitre, who hypothesized the
idea of a primordial "cosmic egg." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this theory advocated by George Gamow, which states that the universe started expanding about
fifteen billion years ago due to a giant explosion.
ANSWER: Big Bang theory [or Big Bang model]
[10] This kind of radiation, discovered by Robert Wilson and Arno Penzias, is considered to be the leftovers
from the Big Bang.
ANSWER: cosmic microwave background radiation [or CMBR; prompt on partial answer]
[10] This British astronomer derisively coined the term "Big Bang" and proposed a rival model, the "steady
state" cosmology, with Hermann Bondi and Thomas Gold.
ANSWER: Fred Hoyle
003-09-4-10219

Tournament-8 Round 10 Page 10 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

20. The Kronstadt Rebellion resulted in the creation of this policy, which was first declared in a decree
known as "On the Replacement of Foodstuffs Requisitions for Fixed Foodstuffs Tax." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this somewhat moderate fiscal policy of Lenin, which replaced war communism in Russia in
1921.
ANSWER: New Economic Policy [or NEP; or Novaya Ekonomicheskaya Politika]
[10] After the death of Lenin, this purge-happy leader who led the Soviet Union during World War Two
replaced the NEP with a policy of collectivization.
ANSWER: Joseph Stalin [or Joseph Besarionis dze Jughashvili]
[10] Joseph Stalin created five of these programs, which emphasized the rapid industrialization of the Soviet
Union.
ANSWER: The Five-Year Plans for the National Economy of the USSR [or Pyatiletka]
035-09-4-10220

21. In this novel, the title rule is explained to Yossarian by Doc Daneeka. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this novel set on the island of Pianosa, which describes the way soldiers such as Major Major
Major and Milo Minderbinder react to the absurdity of war.
ANSWER: Catch-22
[10] This author wrote a novel from the perspective of King David entitled God Knows, in addition to
Catch-22.
ANSWER: Joseph Heller
[10] In Catch-22, Yossarian becomes resolved to stop fighting after being unable to stop the gruesome death
of this fellow pilot.
ANSWER: Snowden
027-09-4-10221

Tournament-8 Round 10 Page 11 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

