Tournament-8
Round 12
Tossups
1. The Limay and Neuquen rivers are located near this country's city of Bariloche, and this country is
home to the Perito Moreno glacier. Comodoro Rivadavia is a center for oil production in this country,
and this country shares Iguazu Falls(*) with its neighbor. Provinces in this country include Mendoza,
which is home to this country's tallest mountain, and this country's capital city includes the district of San
Telmo and landmarks such as the Pink House. That city is located on the Rio de la Plata. For 10 points,
name this country home to the mountain Aconcagua, with capital at Buenos Aires.
ANSWER: Argentina
038-09-4-12102

2. The protagonist of this novel is forced into her first marriage after kissing Johnny Taylor. In this
novel, Sam Watson is married to the protagonist's friend Pheoby, and supports the protagonist's
husband, an embattled mayor who marries her to further his political career in (*) Eatonville. The
protagonist leaves the old farmer Logan Killicks for Jody Starks, but leaves him to move to the Everglades
and live with Tea Cake. For 10 points, name this novel written in dialect about Janie Crawford, a work by
Zora Neale Hurston.
ANSWER: Their Eyes Were Watching God
015-09-4-12103

3. This man fought a duel with John Randolph, and he unsuccessfully attempted to send delegates to
the Congress of Panama. This man was inspired by the ideas of Friedrich List and Alexander
Hamilton to promote protectionist economic policies, creating the (*) "American System" adopted by his
Whig Party. Andrew Jackson claimed that this man became Secretary of State due to a "Corrupt Bargain" he
made with John Quincy Adams, and this man was the architect of the Missouri Compromise. For 10 points,
name this Kentucky politician known as the "Great Compromiser."
ANSWER: Henry Clay
028-09-4-12104

4. Writers from this country include Gerald Murnane and the author of Remembering Babylon, David
Malouf. Another writer from this country wrote Riders in the Chariot and a novel about the titular
German explorer's voyage across this country. The author of Illywhacker and Oscar and Lucinda, (*)
Peter Carey, is from this country. For 10 points, name this nation home to such authors as Patrick White and
Thomas Keneally, as well as Oodgeroo Noonuccal and other Aboriginal poets.
ANSWER: Australia
024-09-4-12105

5. This book recommends leaving a scapegoat in the desert for Azazel. This book opens with
instructions regarding the nature of burnt sacrifices, and its sixteenth and twenty-third chapters
discuss rites for Yom Kippur. This book places seafood that lacks (*) fins and scales on a list of things
that are abominations to God. Chapters seventeen through twenty six of this book are often referred to as the
"Holiness code." For 10 points name this book which precedes Numbers and follows Exodus, the third book
of the Old Testament.
ANSWER: Book of Leviticus
015-09-4-12106

Tournament-8 Round 12 Page 1 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. This phenomenon can occur in a “dusty” variant produced by macroscopic dust particles. Tonks
and Langmuir name oscillations in this kind of material. If those waves are shorter than the Debye
length, they will undergo a collisionless amplitude loss called Landau damping in this substance. In
the earth’s magnetic field, this comprises the (*) Van Allen belt. Solar wind is made up of this, as are
comet tails. This substance is created when part of a gas is ionized with equal parts positive and negative
charges. For 10 points, name this “fourth state of matter.”
ANSWER: plasma
027-09-4-12107

7. One of this artist's early works is Woman Reading in a Garden, and she also depicted her mother in
Reading Le Figaro. This artist depicted a woman carrying a child and a man rowing in The Boating
Party. In her most famous work, a water jug sits at the bottom right and a (*) child's feet dangle into a
washbasin as her mother holds her. For 10 points, name this American painter of The Bath, who moved to
Paris to work with her fellow Impressionists.
ANSWER: Mary Cassatt
024-09-4-12108

8. Besides Raney nickel, another catalyst named for Raney that dehydrogenates alcohols is named
after this element, and the sulfate of this element is used in a chemical reagent that detects the
presence of monosaccharide and disaccharide sugars. Benedict's solution contains ions of this element.
It can be extracted from coveline and chalcosine, and its oxide is found alongside (*) yttrium and
barium in a superconductor. For 10 points, name this metal that alloys with zinc to form brass and tin to
form bronze, an element with chemical symbol Cu.
ANSWER: copper
033-09-4-12109

9. This figure guided Nausicca to Odysseus after appearing to her in a dream, and this deity raised
Erichthonuis after almost being raped by Hephaestus. This deity helped Herakles retrieve Cerberos
from the underworld. After being defeated in a weaving contest, this goddess turned (*) Arachne into a
spider. This goddess was often depicted with an owl, and her most famous temple was the Parthenon. For 10
points, name this deity who sprung fully-grown and armored out of Zeus's head. the Greek goddess of
wisdom.
ANSWER: Pallas Athena [or Pallas Athene or Athena Parthenos]
005-09-4-12110

10. The apothecary Mr. Harris is sent for when one character contracts an illness in this novel. The
central family of this work is left impoverished after their father leaves Norland estate to his son by
another marriage. Anne accidentally reveals her sister Lucy Steele's secret engagement to one
character. Mr. Willoughby spurns (*) Marianne after learning she is poor, forcing her to settle for Colonel
Brandon, and Edward Ferrars finally proposes to Elinor. For 10 points, name this Jane Austen in which the
two Dashwood sisters represent the title qualities.
ANSWER: Sense and Sensibility
015-09-4-12111

Tournament-8 Round 12 Page 2 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

11. Lagrange proved that any integer can be represented as the sum of at most this many squares, and
this is the largest integer such that polynomials of this degree have general solutions. Any map can be
colored with at most this many different colors, according to the "[BLANK] (*) color theorem." The
discriminant of a standard quadratic is equal to b squared minus this number multiplied by a times c. The
simplest Platonic solid, the tetrahedron, has this many faces. For 10 points, name this smallest composite
number.
ANSWER: four
025-09-4-12112

12. This case took one of its key phrases from the Francis Thompson poem Hound of Heaven. This
case included Briggs v. Elliot and Gebhat v. Belton in its ruling, and was a companion case to Bolling v
Sharpe. It was reopened in 1978 to address the issue of "Open Enrollment," and its ruling of (*) "all
deliberate speed" was used to force Orval Faubus to yield to the National Guard at Central High in Little
Rock. For 10 points name this Warren Court decision in which the segregation in a Kansas school district
was ruled unconstitutional.
ANSWER: Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka Kansas
015-09-4-12113

13. One derivative of this language group is a predominately female script that uses phonetic
characters, Nu Shu. Documents in this language group are sometimes annotated with ruby characters
known as bopomofo. In this lanugage group, the semantic root of a character is known as the (*)
radical. This language group's romanizations include Wade-Giles and Hanyu Pinyin. For 10 points, name
this language group in the Sino-Tibetan family that includes Hokkien, Wu, Cantonese, and Mandarin and is
used in the world's most populous nation.
ANSWER: Chinese languages [or Sinitic languages]
036-09-4-12114

14. In one of, this author's novels, Gilliatt attempts to save the steam ship Durande. In another of this
author's novels, Sister Gudule is tormented by an embroidered shoe that reminds her of the child that
was taken from her. This author of The Toilers of the Sea wrote a novel in which a man imprisoned for
stealing a (*) loaf of bread adopts Cosette and is constantly pursued by Inspector Javert, as well as a novel
about the bellringer Quasimodo. For 10 points, name this author of The Hunchback of Notre Dame and Les
Miserables.
ANSWER: Victor Hugo
032-09-4-12115

15. This psychologist wrote about "The Need for Creative People" in his posthumously published
essay collection, The Farther Reaches of Human Nature. In that book, he also explains the “Jonah
complex.” After reading The (*) Organism by Kurt Goldstein, this psychologist created a concept that he
arranged with esteem, belonging, safety, and physiological concerns. For 10 points, name this psychologist
who put “self-actualization” atop of a pyramid that must be fulfilled in order, called his namesake
“hierarchy of needs.”
ANSWER: Abraham Harold Maslow
019-09-4-12116

Tournament-8 Round 12 Page 3 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

16. This man and his elder brother negotiated a peace treaty at Margus after he razed Singidunum.
Honoria sent him a ring asking him to save her from an arranged marriage, and this man murdered
his brother and co-ruler Bleda. Theodosius II negotiated tribute to this man, and he was planning to
invade (*) the eastern Roman empire when he died on his wedding night. Valentinian the third allied with
the Visigoth Theodoric the first to defeat this man at the Catalaunian Planes near Chalons. For 10 points,
name this “scourge of God” and ruler of the Huns.
ANSWER: Attila the Hun
027-09-4-12117

17. He wrote the “Antar” Symphony and the tone poem Sadko. He wrote one work that includes a
recurrent “Alborada” and ends with a “Fandango” dance, the Capriccio Espagnole. This composer
used church hymns in his Russian Easter Overture. He completed Borodin’s opera Prince Igor and
orchestrated Mussorgsky’s (*) Night on Bald Mountain. One of his operas includes a scene where Prince
Guidon transforms into an insect, which is represented by a violin. For 10 points, name this composer of
Scheherezade and The Tale of Tsar Saltan, which includes “The Flight of the Bumblebee.”
ANSWER: Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov
027-09-4-12118

18. Like cyanobacteria, this structure contains the cytochrome B6F complex, which works to transfer
protons and electrons over a membrane in this structure. This structure contains carotenoids like
beta-carotene, which have yellow and red pigments, and in this organelle, (*) rubisco is used in a cycle
that fixes carbon within the stroma. This organelle is the site of the Calvin cycle, and contains the thylakoid
membrane that makes up grana. For 10 points, name this organelle that generates glucose and fructose after
performing photosynthesis, a plant organelle that has the green pigment chlorophyll.
ANSWER: chloroplast [or thylakoid until "organelle"]
027-09-4-12119

19. One member of this school formed a group known as the "Left Column" after leaving it, and is
best remembered for his work on the headquarters of the German Trade Union School. That member,
Hannes Meyer(*), succeeded this school's founder as its leader in 1928, and was himself succeeded by a
man who followed the dictum that "less is more," Ludwig Mies van der Rohe. For 10 points, name this
school of architecture founded by Walter Gropius, whose name means "house of building."
ANSWER: Staatliches Bauhaus
024-09-4-12120

20. Albert de Gondi was influential in the decision to commit this act, which signaled the end of a
truce made at the Peace of Saint-Germain-en-Laye. Pope Gregory XIII praised those involved in this
event, which was signaled by the ringing of (*) church bells. This event was sparked by the outrage
stemming from the assassination of Admiral Gaspard de Coligny. For 10 points, name this event perpetrated
by Catherine de' Medici and Charles IX, in which Catholics massacred Huguenots in 1572 in Paris.
ANSWER: Saint Bartholomew's Day Massacre
035-09-4-12121

Tournament-8 Round 12 Page 4 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

21. One character in this novel, Charles Tansley, states that women cannot paint or write during a
party whose guests include Paul Rayley. The first section of this novel describes the visiting poet
Augustus Carmichael, and children of this novel's main female character include novel include
Camelia, Andrew, and James, whose lives are chronicled in its second section, (*) "Time Passes." In its
third section, Lily Briscoe finishes a portrait before journeying to the title structure. For 10 points, name this
stream-of-consciousness novel about the Ramsay family, written by Virginia Woolf.
ANSWER: To The Lighthouse
038-09-4-12122

Tournament-8 Round 12 Page 5 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

Tournament-8
Round 12
Bonuses
1. In the context of one feature these objects create, the direction in which they advance is called the lee side,
and the direction from which they come is called stoss. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these large bodies of ice, which tear up the land in a process called plucking.
ANSWER: glaciers
[10] These mounds of till are either terminal, if they appear at the end of a glacier, or lateral, if they appear
on the sides. Ribbed ones have ridges perpendicular to the ice's flow and are called rogen.
ANSWER: moraines
[10] These teardrop-shaped hills form in the wake of a glacier.
ANSWER: drumlins
022-09-4-12201

2. His son was known as the Lost Dauphin and his finance minister was Jacques Necker. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this French king who was held in the Tuileries before being executed.
ANSWER: Louis XVI
[10] This Austrian princess and wife of Louis XVI supposedly said "Let them eat cake" and was guillotined
along with Louis.
ANSWER: Marie Antoinette
[10] Marie Antoinette was the daughter of Holy Roman Emperor Francis I and this Hapsburg ruler, who
inherited her lands through the Pragmatic Sanction of 1713.
ANSWER: Maria Theresa
015-09-4-12202

3. In the second act of this opera, the protagonist sings "Un bel di" while waiting for the return of the USS
Abraham Lincoln. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this opera about Cio-Cio San, who commits suicide after being abandoned by her husband
Benjamin Franklin Pinkerton.
ANSWER: Madame Butterfly [or Madama Butterfly]
[10] This Italian composer wrote Turandot and Madame Butterfly.
ANSWER: Giacomo Puccini
[10] In the first act of Madame Butterfly, this American consul warns Pinkerton to treat Butterfly well. In the
second act, Pinkerton sends this character to tell Butterfly that he has left her.
ANSWER: Sharpless
004-09-4-12203

4. The title appendage of this work is found by the barber Ivan Yakovlevich in his bread. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this short story in which Major Kovalyov loses the title body part, only to regain it later upon
waking up.
ANSWER: "The Nose"
[10] "The Nose" was written by this Russian author of "The Overcoat" and The Inspector General.
ANSWER: Nikolai Vasilievich Gogol
[10] Gogol also wrote this short story about Poprishchin, a civil servant who believes he is King Ferdinand
VIII of Spain.
ANSWER: "Diary of a Madman"
035-09-4-12204

Tournament-8 Round 12 Page 6 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

5. This composer used the "reverse sonata" form in his Tragic Overture. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this composer of the German Requiem and Hungarian Dances, as well as a namesake "lullaby."
ANSWER: Johannes Brahms
[10] At the same time that he was working on the Tragic Overture, Brahms was writing this piece as a more
upbeat counterpart. It celebrates the composer's degree from Breslau.
ANSWER: Academic Festival Overture [or Akademische Festouverture]
[10] For much of his life, Brahms was a close companion of this composer's widow. The Abegg Variations,
Papillons (pah-peh-YONZ), and Scenes from Childhood are among his piano works.
ANSWER: Robert Alexander Schumann
019-09-4-12205

6. Polly Peachum sings the song "Pirate Jenny" in the first act of this play. Its second act includes
Macheath's "Ballad of the Pleasant Life." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this work, which is based on John Gay's The Beggar's Opera and begins with another Kurt Weill
song, "Mack the Knife."
ANSWER: The Threepenny Opera [or Die Dreigroschenoper]
[10] This author of the Thirty Years War drama Mother Courage and Her Children and the Hitler satire The
Resistible Rise of Arturo Ui collaborated with Weill on The Threepenny Opera.
ANSWER: Eugen Berthold Friedrich Brecht
[10] For Marxist reasons, Brecht was a proponent of this stage technique, which intentionally "alienates" the
audience from the characters to emphasize the didactic element of the play.
ANSWER: epic theater [or episches theater]
019-09-4-12206

7. A civil war in this country between 1989 and 1996 saw the assassination of President Samuel Doe. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this African country founded as a haven for freed slaves in 1847. Its capital is Monrovia.
ANSWER: Liberia [or Republic of Liberia]
[10] This man became president in 1997 after the end of the First Liberian Civil War, but resigned in 2003
after another civil war erupted.
ANSWER: Charles Taylor
[10] This current president, elected in 2005, is the first female to be elected head of an African country.
ANSWER: Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf
025-09-4-12207

8. In this novel, Mrs. Moore is disturbed by the echoes in a cave. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this novel in which Adela Questad accuses Dr. Aziz of rape in the Marabar Caves.
ANSWER: A Passage to India
[10] This British author, who wrote of Lucy Honeychurch and George Emerson in A Room with a View,
wrote A Passage to India.
ANSWER: Edward Morgan Forster
[10] This Forster novel explores the title character's relationship with Clive Durham and his attempts to cure
his homosexuality by visiting Mr. Lasker-Jones.
ANSWER: Maurice
036-09-4-12208

Tournament-8 Round 12 Page 7 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

9. This artistic style is exemplified by the works of Pontormo and Bronzino. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this style that emerged in the Italian High Renaissance, which was characterized by distorted or
elongated figures in stylized poses.
ANSWER: mannerism
[10] One Mannerist artist was this Spaniard of Cretan heritage, whose paintings include the Opening of the
Fifth Seal and the gloomy and cloudy View of Toledo.
ANSWER: El Greco [or Domenikos Theotokopoulos]
[10] One popular Mannerist painting depicts this woman with "a long neck." Raphael painted this woman
"with the Goldfinches," and pietas show her cradling her dead son, Jesus Christ.
ANSWER: Madonna [or Virgin Mary]
020-09-4-12209

10. These polyatomic anions all end in the suffix "-ate" or "-ite," for instance, nitrate, sulfate, and chlorate.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this group of polyatomic anions, all of which contain a certain atom. Examples include nitric and
chloric acids.
ANSWER: oxyanions [or oxoanions]
[10] This is the number of oxygen atoms in periodate, perchlorate, and permanganate. In those anions,
iodine, chlorine, and manganese all have a formal charge of +7.
ANSWER: 4
[10] One of the few polyatomic anions not to contain oxygen is this minus one anion consisting of a carbon
triple bonded to a nitrogen. Like monatomic anions, it ends with the suffix "-ide."
ANSWER: cyanide
003-09-4-12210

11. This unit-less value reaches its maximum at the point at which the marginal rate of substitution is equal
to the slope of the budget constraint. For 10 points each:
[10] Cobb-Douglas function is often used to calculate what economic concept that measures the level of
satisfaction for consumers.
ANSWER: utility
[10] These curves represent the set points for which utility is constant.
ANSWER: indifference curves
[10] Marginal utility helps explain St. Petersburg as well as this paradox concerning the price of water and
diamond and their relative utility. Marx had some labor theory of “it.”
ANSWER: Paradox of value
034-09-4-12211

12. He killed his mother Agrippina and supposedly fiddled while Rome burned. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this last Roman Emperor from the Julio-Claudian line.
ANSWER: Nero Claudius Caesar
[10] Nero used Gnaeus Domitius Corbulo in the successful struggle for Armenia against this Iranian Empire,
which the Romans had once lost to at the Battle of Carrhae.
ANSWER: the Parthian Empire
[10] Nero was also able to quell an uprising in Britannia led by this leader of the Iceni tribe, who was
crushed at the Battle of Watling Street.
ANSWER: Boudicca
034-09-4-12212

Tournament-8 Round 12 Page 8 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

13. This work, with chapter titles such as "Waifs of the City's Slums," visits locations such as Mulberry
Bend and Bandit's Roost. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this work of photojournalism subtitled Studies Among the Tenements of New York, which
depicted the city's poor living conditions.
ANSWER: How the Other Half Lives: Studies Among the Tenements of New York
[10] This Dutch immigrant muckraker produced How the Other Half Lives.
ANSWER: Jacob Riis
[10] Another muckraker, Ida Tarbell, wrote "The History of" this company owned by John Rockefeller,
purporting to expose monopolistic business practices.
ANSWER: Standard Oil Company
025-09-4-12213

14. This city was the first capital of the United States, and George Washington was sworn in here. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this east coast city controlled by the corrupt Boss Tweed for much of the nineteenth century.
ANSWER: New York City
[10] This political machine was named for a Native American leader. It was run by William Tweed and
eventually weakened by Fiorello LaGuardia.
ANSWER: Tammany Hall
[10] This cartoonist's savage caricatures of Tweed and Tammany Hall contributed to their downfall. He also
invented Uncle Sam and the modern Santa Claus.
ANSWER: Thomas Nast
015-09-4-12214

15. For 10 points each, name these English philosophers.
[10] This philosopher distinguished between primary and secondary qualities in An Essay Concerning
Human Understanding, and argued that life, liberty, and property were natural rights in Two Treatises on
Government.
ANSWER: John Locke
[10] This seventeeth century materialist argued that an absolute monarchy is the only system of government
that prevents the war of "all against all" in his most famous work, Leviathan.
ANSWER: Thomas Hobbes
[10] Known as Doctor Invincibilus, this medieval proponent of nominalism lends his name to a principle
asserting that theories with fewer assumptions are preferable to more complex ones.
ANSWER: William of Ockham
004-09-4-12215

16. For 10 points each, name these ways that plant and animal cells differ.
[10] In plants, this storage organelle can be extremely large to allow cell size to increase without adding
excess bulk.
ANSWER: vacuole
[10] These semi-autonomous organelles perform a wide array of photosynthetic and respiratory tasks, and
are present in all plants but only a few marine mollusks. Like mitochondria, their origin is explained by the
endosymbiotic theory.
ANSWER: plastids [do not accept "chloroplast"]
[10] These structures consist of nine microtubule triplets and are contained within centrosomes. They are
present in animal but not plant cells.
ANSWER: centrioles
027-09-4-12216

Tournament-8 Round 12 Page 9 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

17. Nanga Parbat anchors the western end of this mountain range. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this mountain range that contains peaks such as Annapurna and Mt. Everest and lies to the
northeast of the Indian subcontinent.
ANSWER: Himalayas
[10] The alpine lake Issyk Kul lies in this mountain range, which lies north of China's Taklamakan Desert.
ANSWER: Tian Shan
[10] The Tian Shan forms part of this nation's southern border; this nation with its capital at Astana also
contains parts of the Caspian and Aral Seas.
ANSWER: Republic of Kazakhstan
036-09-4-12217

18. In this work, Dunstan Cass dies after stealing the title character's gold, and Dunstan's brother Godfrey
marries Nancy Lammeter. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this novel in which the title character takes care of Eppie, though she is the daughter of Godfrey
Cass.
ANSWER: Silas Marner: The Weaver of Raveloe
[10] This author of Silas Marner also wrote a novel in which Philip Wakem and Stephen Guest vie for the
affection of Maggie Tulliver, The Mill on the Floss.
ANSWER: George Eliot [or Mary Ann Evans]
[10] In this Eliot novel, Dorothea Brooke first marries Edward Casaubon, and, after Edward's death, marries
Will Ladislaw before leaving the title location for London.
ANSWER: Middlemarch: A Study of Provincial Life
023-09-4-12218

19. This deity and his wife created the first land by thrusting a jeweled spear into the ocean. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this deity whose children Susanowo, Tsukiyomi, and Amaterasu were born out of his nose and
eyes.
ANSWER: Izanagi-no-mikoto
[10] Izanagi and his children are all figures in the mythology of this religion, which is most commonly
practiced in Japan.
ANSWER: Shintoism [accept kami-no-michi]
[10] Shintoism worships these entities, which include deities like Izanagi but can also include inanimate
objects.
ANSWER: kami
023-09-4-12219

20. In this type of motion, the point at which the rotating object touches the ground is at rest with respect to
the observer. For 10 points each:
[10] Give the three-word term describing this system of both transverse and rotational motion.
ANSWER: rolling without slipping [or word forms for both rolling and slipping]
[10] In rolling without slipping, this point experiences only transverse, but not rotational, motion. Torque is
always zero at this point, so it is useful to take torques about an axis passing through it.
ANSWER: center of mass [or CM; do not accept or prompt on partial answer]
[10] A given point on the surface of an object that is rolling without slipping traces out this curve. It was
found to be the solution to the brachistochrone problem.
ANSWER: cycloid
003-09-4-12220
Tournament-8 Round 12 Page 10 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

21. This author used the life of Irving Thalberg as the basis for his unfinished novel about Hollywood, The
Last Tycoon. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this author who described Amory Blaine's experiences at Princeton in his autobiographical novel
This Side of Paradise.
ANSWER: Francis Scott Key Fitzgerald
[10] In this novel by Fitzgerald narrated by Nick Carraway, the title character is shot by George Wilson and
subsequently abandoned by Daisy Buchanan.
ANSWER: The Great Gatsby
[10] After meeting this woman at one of Gatsby's parties, Nick begins a relationship with her, but ends it
after discovering her lack of honesty, such as the time she cheated during a golf tournament.
ANSWER: Jordan Baker [or Jordan Baker]
002-09-4-12221

Tournament-8 Round 12 Page 11 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

