Tournament-8
Round 13
Tossups
1. This empire moved north of the Tugela River after losing a devastating battle to forces commanded
by Andries Pretorius. This empire expanded by using a new weapon, the assegai, and used impi to
defeat its neighbors during the Mfecane. Under Cetshwayo, this empire destroyed British troops in the
Battle of (*) Isandlwana, although it suffered a significant setback in 1838 after losing the Battle of Blood
River to Boer settlers. For 10 points, name this empire that controlled most of southern Africa in the
nineteenth century under the leadership of Shaka.
ANSWER: Zulu Empire [or amaZulu]
004-09-4-13102

2. The quantum mechanical operator corresponding to this classical mechanics quantity is denoted j,
and the Clebsch-Gordan coefficients are used when systems with two different values for this quantity
are coupled. Kepler's Second Law is derived from the conservation of this quantity, which is the time
derivative of (*) torque and thus equal to the product of the moment of inertia and angular velocity. For 10
points, name this quantity denoted L, which is equal to the cross product of the radius and linear momentum.
ANSWER: angular momentum [do not accept or prompt on "momentum"]
003-09-4-13103

3. Stravinsky wrote one of these works that was has a toccata, two arias, and a capriccio movement,
which was recorded by Hilary Hahn. J.S. Bach wrote a “double” one of these works in D minor which
only uses a string orchestra. Tchaikovsky and Beethoven both wrote their versions of this kind of
work in D major. Brahms dedicated his work of this type to Joseph Joachim. Vivaldi wrote four that
were accompanied by (*) sonnets. Well-known performers of these kinds of works include Isaac Stern and
Itzhak Perlman. For 10 points, name this kind of work for an orchestra and a string soloist, which are
exemplified by The Four Seasons.
ANSWER: violin concertos
027-09-4-13104

4. One author from this country wrote a story whose narrator believes that classic texts contain the
secret message "Eat People!" That author from this country also wrote a story about the hapless Ah
Q, and this country's only Nobel Laureate wrote the novel (*) Soul Mountain. One novel from this
country details a monkey king's voyage to India. Journey to the West and The Romance of the Kingdoms are
two of the four classic novels of this country. For 10 points, name this country, whose classic novels were
written during the Ming and Qing dynasties.
ANSWER: People's Republic of China [or Zhonghua Renmin Gongheguo]
020-09-4-13105

5. Along with Welchman, this scientist names a "bombe" that would test rotor settings using a "crib."
One formulation named after this man was used to demonstrate that the halting problem is
undecidable. He devised a test in which a person converses with both another person and a (*) machine
impersonating a person, in order to determine whether the machine can effective act human. For 10 points,
name this mathematician and computer scientist who helped the Bletchley Park team break the Enigma code,
who names an artificial intelligence test, and whose "machines" can be adapted to simulate the logic of any
computer algorithm.
ANSWER: Alan Mathison Turing
026-09-4-13106

Tournament-8 Round 13 Page 1 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. One ruler of this name was killed by Gabriel Montgomery shortly after signing the Treaty of
Cateau-Cambrésis. Another ruler of this name briefly ruled as king of Poland before returning to his
home country and being killed by Jacques Clément. Two rulers of this name and the Duke of Guise
participated in a War of the (*) Three men of this name. The winner of that war with this name converted
to Catholicism and issued the Edict of Nantes. For 10 points, give this shared name of French kings, the
fourth of whom began Bourbon rule of France.
ANSWER: Henry [or Henri; or Henries of France; or Henry II before "Poland"]
023-09-4-13107

7. One form of these reactions has a modification using ethylene glycol known as the Huang Minlon
modification. Another form of these reactions uses liquid ammonia to convert aromatic rings to
cyclohexane. Another form uses zinc amalgam and is effective for aryl-alkyl ketones and, like a
similar reaction that uses heated hydrazone, has an end product of alkanes. More common examples
use LAH or other hydride donors to turn ketones into secondary alcohols. (*) Birch, Clemmensen, and
Wolff-Kishner, are, for 10 points, types of what reaction in which an atom or molecule gains electrons and
that is usually paired with oxidation?
ANSWER: reduction
036-09-4-13108

8. This country briefly had a female dictator named Ana Pauker, and during World War II this
country was ruled by the Legion of St. Michael or the Iron Guard Party. This country gained territory
from its northern neighbor in the Treaty of Trianon. Historic regions within this country include (*)
Bessarabia and Wallachia, while the city of Cluj-Napcoa is the capital of its northern region, Transylvania.
A 1989 revolution in this country ended in the televised military execution of its long-time Communist
dictator, Nicolae Ceasescu. For 10 points name this Eastern European country with capital at Bucharest.
ANSWER: Romania
021-09-4-13109

9. The title of the first volume of Deleuze and Guattari's Capitalism and Schizophrenia criticizes this
concept. Ernest Jones used this concept to explain Hamlet's behavior, and its creator theorized that it gives
rise to castration anxiety, and that overcoming it gives rise to the superego. For 10 points, name this male
counterpart of the Electra complex, in which, according to Freud, a son has a repressed fixation for his
mother and antipathy towards his father.
ANSWER: Oedipus complex
024-09-4-13110

10. A modern poet from this country wrote the poem "It is Worthy." One author from this country
wrote a novel whose narrator ventures to Madame Hortense's hotel. This country's earliest works
include a poem that divides human existence into a Golden Age, a Silver Age, a Bronze Age, a Heroic
Age, and an Iron Age, (*) Works and Days. The author of The Last Temptation of Christ is from this
country, which was also the birthplace of the playwright of Antigone and Oedipus Rex. For 10 points, name
this modern-day country whose ancient authors include Sophocles and Homer.
ANSWER: Greece [or Hellenic Republic]
020-09-4-13111

Tournament-8 Round 13 Page 2 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

11. This mythology believes that the Milky Way is a path used by migrating birds. In this mythology,
the dead cross nine seas and a river to reach Manala, Pohjola, or Tuonela. This mythology believes
that the world was formed by Ilmatar, and that a type of harp called the kantele was created by
Ilmatar's son (*) Vainamoinen (VIE-nuh-MOI-nen). Vainamoinen appears with Lemminkainen
(LEM-in-KAI-nen) and the sampo creator Ilmarinen in the definitive collection of this mythology, the
Kalevala. For 10 points, name this native myth system of eastern Scandinavia.
ANSWER: Finnish mythology [accept obvious equivalents]
019-09-4-13112

12. This letter denotes the lowest unfilled electron subshell in copper, and while a subshell denoted by
this letter is filled in manganese, the 3d subshell is not. Palladium is unique in that it (*) lacks electrons
in this subshell at the fifth energy level. This subshell corresponds to a second quantum number of zero, and
is the only one that exists at the first energy level. For 10 points, name this spherical electron subshell,
whose name is an abbreviation for its historical name, "sharp."
ANSWER: s
003-09-4-13113

13. In one of this artist's paintings, a woman's face can be seen in a mirror as she sits at a virginal, and
in a similarly themed painting, three people crowd around a piano. In addition to The Concert and
The Music Lesson, this artist created a painting in which a female in blue representing Clio is being
painted by the artist, known as The Art of Painting. This artist may have used a (*) camera obscura to
achieve the extremely realistic lighting in his paintings, include one of a woman wearing a blue head scarf
and the title piece of jewelry. For 10 points, name this seventeenth century Dutch painter of Girl with a Pearl
Earring.
ANSWER: Johannes Vermeer
035-09-4-13114

14. This author collected poems such as "The Flies in the Moochkap Teahouse" and "The Highest
Sickness" in My Sister--Life. One of this author's novels is partially set at the Varykino estate, and
includes a character who attempts to get the money to marry Pavel Antipov by shooting (*)
Komarovsky. The title character of this author's major novel is torn between his wife Tonya and Lara during
the upheaval of the Russian Civil War. For 10 points, name this Russian author who was censored by the
Soviet Union for writing Doctor Zhivago.
ANSWER: Boris Pasternak
004-09-4-13115

15. This body of water’s namesake community was established by the treaty of Chaguaramas. One
fruit that is grown on islands here is called the stinky toe, which one can purchase in Basseterre. The
Mosquito coast runs along this body of water, and (*) Montego Bay is an inlet of it. Mount Pelee is an
active volcano that formed the Leeward island that was home to Josephine Bonaparte in this sea. Home to
islands like Curacao, St. Kitts and Nevis, and Martinique, the Bay of Pigs is part of it. For 10 points, name
this sea that includes the countries Dominica, Haiti, Cuba, and Jamaica.
ANSWER: Caribbean sea
027-09-4-13116

Tournament-8 Round 13 Page 3 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

16. This man feuded with Paul Cyr over who should succeed him in one role, leading to his follower
Alvin O. King winning an election. This man wrote a predictive account of his actions if he were to
beat FDR in 1936 in My First Days in the White House. While a senator, this politician came up with a
wealth redistribution plan that promised to make (*) "every man a king." This creator of "Share Our
Wealth" was assassinated by Carl Weiss at the capitol building in Baton Rouge. For 10 points, name this
politician nicknamed the Kingfish, who dominated Louisiana politics.
ANSWER: Huey Pierce Long
023-09-4-13117

17. After ripping apart Silus with two trees, this figure raped his daughter Peregrine and fathered
Melanippus. Along with the Lapith prince Pirithous, he kidnapped a young Helen. This man also
slayed the enormous Crommyonian sow and killed the people-stretching bandit (*) Procrustes. His
father Aegeus died when this hero forgot to change his ship's sails from black to white after Ariadne used a
long piece of string to help him out of the labyrinth. For 10 points, name this mythological founder of
Athens and slayer of the Minotaur.
ANSWER: Theseus
015-09-4-13118

18. In one of this author's works set in Brooklyn's Red Hook district, the illegal Italian immigrant
Marco kills Eddie Carbone after being reported to the authorities. In another of his plays, the slave
Tituba prepares a potion that Abigail Williams wants to use to kill Elizabeth (*) Proctor. The
protagonist of another of his plays works for Howard Wagner and disappoints his son Biff by cheating on his
wife Linda before killing himself for the insurance money. For 10 points, name this American author of A
View from the Bridge who wrote about the Salem witch trials in The Crucible and Willy Loman in Death of
a Salesman.
ANSWER: Arthur Miller
015-09-4-13119

19. This group's ideology was based on the Anka Doctrine and its rule was contested by exile groups
like GRUNK and FUNK. This group took power from Lon Nol and kept King Sihanouk as a
figurehead. This group attempted to build an agrarian society in (*) Kampuchea by resetting the
calendar to "year zero", and operated S-21, one of its "killing fields." It took its name from the empire that
built Angkor Wat. For 10 points, name this group led by Pol Pot, a 1970s Communist group which
perpetrated a genocide in Cambodia.
ANSWER: Khmer Rouge
038-09-4-13120

20. Kearns-Sayre syndrome is a disease associated with malfunction of this organelle. Nonsyndromic
deafness, ataxia, and neuropathies may result from mutations in this organelle's DNA, which is
inherited entirely from the mother. The inner of this organelle's two membranes has compartments
called (*) cristae and contains the matrix, which contains enzymes that oxidize pyruvate. It produces much
of the cell's supply of ATP through oxidative phosphorylation. For 10 points, name this energy-generating
organelle.
ANSWER: mitochondria [or mitochondrion]
025-09-4-13121

Tournament-8 Round 13 Page 4 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

21. In one poem by this author, Laon and Cythna revolt against the Ottoman Sultan. This author of
The Revolt of Islam wrote a poem about the grandeur of "Mont Blanc," but carefully stayed consistent
with his earlier explication of The Necessity of Atheism. One poem by this author asks the title creature
to "teach me half the gladness / that thy brain must know," and opens (*) "Hail to thee, blithe spirit!"
Another poem by this author describes "two vast and trunkless legs of stone" representing the title figure,
who boasts "look on my works, ye mighty, and despair!" For 10 points, name this British poet of "To a
Skylark" and "Ozymandias."
ANSWER: Percy Bysshe Shelley [prompt on Shelley]
020-09-4-13122

Tournament-8 Round 13 Page 5 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

Tournament-8
Round 13
Bonuses
1. This country underwent the Constitutional Revolution of 1906 and the reformist White Revolution, which
lasted from 1960 to 1963. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this country, where the most dramatic revolution was a 1979 action by a coalition of Islamic
ulama and the left-wing Tudeh Party.
ANSWER: Islamic Republic of Iran [or Jomhuri-ye Eslami-ye Iran]
[10] The Iranian Revolution was given an Islamic character when this ayatollah seized control of the
movement. He remained the Supreme Leader of Iran until his 1989 death.
ANSWER: Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini [or Ruhollah Musavi; or Ruhollah Musawi]
[10] The Iranian Revolution's overthrow of Mohammad Reza Shah marked the end of this last Iranian royal
dynasty.
ANSWER: Pahlavi Dynasty [or the Pahlavis]
019-09-4-13201

2. Name these authors from India, for 10 points each.
[10] This author of the film criticism essay The Wizard of Oz: An Appreciation won acclaim for Midnight's
Children and condemnation for The Satanic Verses.
ANSWER: Ahmed Salman Rushdie
[10] This author of the national anthems of both India and Bangladesh was introduced to the West via W.B.
Yeats's introduction to his 1913 collection Gitanjali.
ANSWER: Rabindranath Tagore [or Rab?ndran?th ?h?kur]
[10] This Indian-born author used Onegin stanzas to describe 1980s Northern California in The Golden Gate
and wrote one of the longest novels in English, the 1488-page A Suitable Boy.
ANSWER: Vikram Seth
019-09-4-13202

3. Name these economists, for 10 points each.
[10] This conservative economist and former leader of the Chicago school published Capitalism and
Freedom in 1962. He passed away in 2006.
ANSWER: Milton Friedman
[10] This British economist advocated governments operating at a deficit and wrote General Theory of
Employment, Interest and Money.
ANSWER: John Maynard Keynes
[10] This Indian economist wrote Collective Choice and Social Welfare and Poverty and Famines.
ANSWER: Amartya Sen
025-09-4-13203

4. The incorruptible title character of this novel is killed while trying to recover silver which everyone else
believed lost. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this novel whose title character helps Charles Gould protect the silver mines of Sulaco.
ANSWER: Nostromo
[10] Nostromo was written by this Polish-born British author of The Secret Agent and Lord Jim.
ANSWER: Joseph Conrad [or Josef Teodor Konrad Korzeniowski]
[10] This Conrad novel ends with Kurtz whispering "the horror, the horror!" to Marlow in the Congo.
ANSWER: Heart of Darkness
036-09-4-13204

Tournament-8 Round 13 Page 6 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

5. This man is credited with creating the first manger scene, and he wrote "The Canticle of the Sun" and a
namesake prayer that begins "Lord, make me an instrument of your peace". For 10 points each:
[10] Name this 13th century Italian patron saint of ecology and animals who founded a namesake order of
Friars.
ANSWER: Saint Francis of Assisi [or Giovanni Francesco Bernardone; prompt on Saint Francis]
[10] On the Feast of the Exultation of the Cross, St. Francis received these five markings that correspond
with the five wounds of Jesus during the Crucifixion.
ANSWER: Stigmata
[10] The formation of the Franciscans was approved by this pope who called the Fourth Crusade, the
Albigensian Crusade, and the Fourth Lateran Council.
ANSWER: Pope Innocent III [or Lotario de Conti; prompt on Conti]
005-09-4-13205

6. The namesake clothing item of this event included an oversized, double-breasted jacket. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this weeklong episode of violence in June 1943, which began as an ethnic clash between young
Mexican-Americans and sailors docked in Los Angeles.
ANSWER: the Zoot Suit riots
[10] Forty-nine years later, L.A. rioted again after the white police officers who were videotaped by George
Holliday in a beating of this black suspect were acquitted.
ANSWER: Rodney King
[10] In 1965, this neighborhood, the location of some namesake folk art "towers" built by Simon Rodia, was
also the site of racially motivated rioting in Los Angeles.
ANSWER: Watts
019-09-4-13206

7. It is equal to the product of current and cross-sectional area. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this quantity that characterizes the strength of a magnet.
ANSWER: magnetic moment [or magnetic dipole moment; do not accept or prompt on "dipole moment"]
[10] This quantity is equal to the cross product of magnetic moment and magnetic field. In mechanics, it
equals the cross product of radius and force.
ANSWER: torque
[10] This quantity is proportional to the dot product of magnetic moment and magnetic field. Like work, in
mechanics, it equals the dot product of force and distance.
ANSWER: potential energy [prompt on energy]
003-09-4-13207

8. He wrote a collection of observational letters under the pseudonym of Jonathan Oldstyle. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this American author of Tales of the Alhambra and "Rip Van Winkle."
ANSWER: Washington Irving
[10] Irving's short story "The Legend of Sleepy Hollow" follows this man, a schoolmaster from Connecticut
who is chased by the Headless Horseman.
ANSWER: Ichabod Crane [or Ichabod Crane]
[10] "Rip Van Winkle" and "The Legend of Sleepy Hollow" were published in The Sketch Book of this
pseudonym of Irving.
ANSWER: Geoffrey Crayon
024-09-4-13208

Tournament-8 Round 13 Page 7 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

9. This ballet depicts a pre-Christian Russian fertility ritual over the course of its movements "A Kiss of the
Earth" and "The Exalted Sacrifice." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Nijinsky-choreographed ballet, subtitled Pictures from Pagan Russia, which caused a riot at
its 1913 Paris premiere due to its high bassoon notes and angular dance motions.
ANSWER: The Rite of Spring [or Le Sacre du printemps]
[10] This Russian émigré composer of the ballet Petrushka, a "ballet cantata" called The Wedding, and the
opera The Rake's Progress wrote The Rite of Spring.
ANSWER: Igor Fyodorovich Stravinsky
[10] Stravinsky worked with Michael Fokine on this ballet about Prince Ivan's attempt to capture the title
creature from the gardens of Kashchei (kuh-SHAY) the Deathless.
ANSWER: The Firebird [or L'oiseau de feu]
019-09-4-13209

10. In humans, this organ is divided up into the fundus, body, antrum, and pylorum, and it is separated from
the esophagus by the cardiac sphincter. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this organ that uses contractions to churn food into chyme. Gastric glands secrete hydrochloric
acid into this organ to aid digestion.
ANSWER: stomach
[10] This mixture of phospholipids, salts, cholesterol, and acids is created in the liver and stored in the
gallbladder. It enters the duodenum to mix with food digested by the stomach.
ANSWER: bile
[10] Much of the bile secreted into the duodenum is reabsorbed in this segment of the small intestine. Food
passes through it just before entering the cecum.
ANSWER: ileum
027-09-4-13210

11. Several Nazis eluded justice following World War II. Identify some of them, for 10 points each:
[10] This man served as secretary general of the United Nations from 1972 to 1981. When running for
president of Austria in 1986, it was discovered that he served as an intelligence officer for a German army
unit that deported the Jewish population of Thessalonica to Nazi death camps.
ANSWER: Kurt Waldheim
[10] This Nazi doctor at Auschwitz conducted infamous medical experiments on inmates. He lived the
post-war years in South America until his presumed 1979 death.
ANSWER: Josef Mengele
[10] This member of the SS organized the transportation of Europe's Jewish population to concentration
camps. He lived in Buenos Aires following the war and was captured by Israeli intelligence agents in 1960,
after which he was transported to Israel, placed on trial, and hanged.
ANSWER: Adolf Eichmann
030-09-4-13211

12. This play ends with the servant Firs boarded up and alone. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this play in which the peasant born Lopakhin buys the title estate from Madame Ranevskaya.
ANSWER: The Cherry Orchard [or Vishniovy sad]
[10] The Russian playwright of Uncle Vanya and The Seagull wrote The Cherry Orchard.
ANSWER: Anton Pavlovich Chekhov
[10] This Chekhov play centers on Olga and Masha Prozorov, who are manipulated out of their home by the
ambitious Natasha.
ANSWER: The Three Sisters [or Tri sestry]
015-09-4-13212

Tournament-8 Round 13 Page 8 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

13. Places on the Iberian Peninsula are the subject of this question. For 10 points each:
[10] This capital of Vizcaya province is located inland from the Bay of Biscay, and it is the largest city in
Basque Country. Located on the Nervion River, it is the home of a branch of the Guggenheim Museum.
ANSWER: Bilbao
[10] Navigable for fifteen miles, this river rises in the springs of Fontibre and is Spain's longest.
ANSWER: Ebro
[10] The only major Spanish city along this river is Toledo, and it is dammed near Bolarque to form the Sea
of Castile. Lisbon is located on this river.
ANSWER: Tagus [or Tejo]
030-09-4-13213

14. A revolt against the Angevin king Charles I was known as this location's "Vespers." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this island whose city of Messina was seized by the Mamertines in the runup to the First Punic
War. It was invaded by the Allied Powers for access to Italy during World War II.
ANSWER: Sicily [or Sicilia]
[10] Two kings of Sicily, Roger Guiscard and his son, were originally from this kingdom. Its best known
ruler conquered England by winning the Battle of Hastings.
ANSWER: Normandy
[10] The thousand men lead by this red-shirted revolutionary layed siege to Palermo during the
Risorgimento, the campaign to unify Italy.
ANSWER: Giuseppe Garibaldi
020-09-4-13214

15. Works of this school of philosophy include How to Make our Ideas Clear and Democracy and Education
. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this school of philosophy that truth depends on the practical use of an idea whose members
include John Dewey.
ANSWER: pragmatism [accept pragmaticism]
[10] This pragmatist philosopher introduced the study of semiotics and wrote the aforementioned How to
Make our Ideas Clear as well as The Fixation of Belief.
ANSWER: Charles Sanders Peirce
[10] This philosopher wrote Pragmatism and The Principles of Psychology, and he claimed that religious
genius not religious structures should be studied in The Varieties of Religious Experience.
ANSWER: William James
025-09-4-13215

16. This chemical process uses magnetite as a catalyst, and it consumes over one percent of the world's
energy supply. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this chemical process sometimes also named for Bosch that requires the breaking of nitrogen
triple bonds to produce its product.
ANSWER: Haber-Bosch process
[10] The Haber process produces this chemical used in fertilizer with formula NH3.
ANSWER: ammonia [do not accept "ammonium"]
[10] This other chemical process produces nitric acid, using ammonia as a reactant.
ANSWER: Ostwald process
025-09-4-13216

Tournament-8 Round 13 Page 9 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

17. The plot of this work hinges on the fact that its protagonist Frederic was born on February 29th, meaning
his apprenticeship with the title characters won't end until he is 84. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this comic opera which ends after a fight between the title characters and the police force and
which contains the song "I am the very model of a modern Major-General".
ANSWER: The Pirates of Penzance; or, the Slave of Duty
[10] This composer of the music for "Onward, Christian Soldiers" also created operas like The Pirates of
Penzance and The Mikado to libretti written by his partner W.S. Gilbert.
ANSWER: Arthur Seymour Sullivan
[10] This former tailor marries Katisha near the end of The Mikado. He sings about people he'd gladly do
away with and who "never would be missed" in the song "I've got a little list".
ANSWER: Ko-Ko [or the Lord High Executioner of Titipu]
029-09-4-13217

18. This conflict pitted a rebel insurgency consisting of such groups as the Falange and the Carlists against
the leftist Popular Front government. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this internal conflict waged within an European nation from 1936 to 1939, which saw the
republican government fall to fascist rebels supported by Benito Mussolini.
ANSWER: Spanish Civil War
[10] After the insurgents seized power, this right-wing military leader became dictator of Spain. A staunch
anti-Communist, he ruled Spain until his death in 1975.
ANSWER: Francisco Franco Bahamonde
[10] After Franco's death, this man was designated king of Spain, reestablishing the monarchy and the House
of Borbon. He led Spain's transition into a democracy.
ANSWER: Juan Carlos I
027-09-4-13218

19. Identify the following Impressionist artists, for 10 points each:
[10] This painter created The Cotton Exchange at New Orleans, but remains best known for his L'Absinthe
and various artworks depicting ballerinas.
ANSWER: Hilaire Germain Edgar Degas
[10] Several works depicting Claude Monet at work were painted by this artist, who created Le Moulin de la
Galette and Luncheon of the Boating Party.
ANSWER: Pierre-Auguste Renoir
[10] A black woman serves as the maidservant to the title nude courtesan Olympia, a controversial painting
by this artist of A Bar at the Folies-Bergere.
ANSWER: Edouard Manet
020-09-4-13219

20. These devices include solenoids and toroids. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these circuit elements that store energy in a magnetic field.
ANSWER: inductors
[10] This law states that an induced current opposes the direction of change in emf due to a changing
magnetic field.
ANSWER: Lenz's Law
[10] In terms of the resistance R and the inductance L, this is the time constant for an RL circuit.
ANSWER: L/R [or L over R; or reasonable equivalents]
003-09-4-13220

Tournament-8 Round 13 Page 10 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

21. This work's title character is aided by his steward Giovanni Bertuccio and the Italian bandit Luigi
Vampa, and he eventually falls in love with his Turkish slave Haydee. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this novel whose title character, Edmond Dantes, escapes the Chateau d'If with the help of
Abbe Faria and gains his revenge on Villefort, Morcerf, and Danglars.
ANSWER: The Count of Monte Cristo [or Le Comte de Monte Cristo]
[10] The Count of Monte Cristo was written by this French author of The Man in the Iron Mask.
ANSWER: Alexandre Dumas, père [accept Dumas Davy de la Pailleterie]
[10] This Catalan woman was originally Dantes's fiancée, but she married Fernand Mondego after hearing of
Dantes's supposed death.
ANSWER: Mercédès Herrera [or Mercédès Mondego; prompt on Mondego; accept the Countess de
Morcerf]
029-09-4-13221

Tournament-8 Round 13 Page 11 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

