Tournament-8
Round 5
Tossups
1. One section of this text explains that Darius’s former kingdom did not rebel against Alexander the
Great after his death because he used ministers, and it describes three levels of human intellect in the
part about (*) selecting ministers. The author warns against flatterers, cruelty, and generosity, and adds that
qualities of both the fox and the lion are important. The title figure was supposedly based on Cesare Borgia.
For 10 points, name this text dedicated to Lorenzo de Medici outlines the proper ways to maintain political
power, a work of Niccolo Machiavelli.
ANSWER: The Prince [or Il Principe]
034-09-4-05102

2. This man appointed Levi Woodbury to the Supreme Court and countered the effects of the Black
Tariff by signing the Walker Tariff into law. This politician defeated John Bell in a bid to become
Speaker of the House. This president chose George M. Dallas as his running mate after emerging as
the dark horse candidate to defeat Van Buren in the convention. As president, he acquired the (*)
Oregon territory and signed the treaty of Guadeloupe Hidalgo after winning the Mexican American War. For
10 points name this expansionist eleventh president of the United States.
ANSWER: James Knox Polk
015-09-4-05103

3. This artist's works include a limestone disk surrounded by twelve chairs and a gate that features
bisected circles-within-circles. Those works, The Table of Silence and The Kiss Gate, can be found near
the town of Targu Jiu, along with another of his works, a huge tower made of rhomboid iron modules.
He adapted his Maiastra series to create sculptures that used elongated marble and bronze shapes to
capture the pure essence of (*) flight. For 10 points, identify this Romanian sculptor who created The
Endless Column and Bird in Space.
ANSWER: Constantin Brancusi [accept variants on the pronunciation "BRIN-koosh"]
029-09-4-05104

4. In this author's last novel, Ned bribes Lightning to win a race with a fish, and Boon Hogganbeck
marries the prostitute Miss Corrie. This author wrote a short story ending with the image of a "long
strand of iron-gray hair" in a bed next to a man killed with arsenic marked "For Rats," Homer
Barron. Besides writing The (*) Reivers and "A Rose for Emily," this author wrote a book partly narrated
by the mentally retarded Benjy and the suicidal Quentin Compson. For 10 points each, name this author
from Mississippi who used Yoknapatowpha County as the setting of his novels As I Lay Dying and The
Sound and the Fury.
ANSWER: William Faulkner
032-09-4-05105

5. Varieties of this mineral include onyx, jasper and chalcedony, and it is one of the few minerals to
feature conchoidal fracture. Its piezoelectric properties have resulted in its being used in clocks and
watches. After feldspar, it is the most (*) common mineral on Earth, and it is the most common on the
Earth's surface. Common varieties of it include citrine and amethyst. For 10 points, name this crystalline
form of silica, a mineral with chemical formula SiO2 and a Mohs hardness of seven.
ANSWER: quartz
025-09-4-05106

Tournament-8 Round 5 Page 1 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. This author a book about a philosopher's love for Sémire, Azora, and finally Astarté, the queen of
Babylon. In another book by this author, the protagonist meets the Anabaptist Jacques after fleeing a
battle between the Bulgars and the Abares. In that novel by this author, the protagonist's mentor
contract syphilis and is hanged at an auto-da-fé following the (*) Lisbon earthquake. One of this author's
title characters is evicted from Castle Thunder-ten-Tronckh for kissing Cunégonde. For 10 points, name this
French author who mocked Dr. Pangloss's optimistic philosophy in Candide.
ANSWER: Voltaire [or Francis-Marie Arouet]
022-09-4-05107

7. BCD, one way of storing these objects, is close to the way humans use them, and the Gray code
representation of them differs among adjacent points by one bit. Commonly used in microprocessors
is two’s complement notation for denoting these objects, and one format used in scientific computing
comes in standard and double forms specified by IEEE 754. That technique uses a mantissa, sign bit,
and (*) exponent and is called floating point, while most operations on these are fixed point and are done by
the Arithmetic Logic Unit. For 10 points, name these abstract entities which can be shifted, added, or
multiplied by a computer.
ANSWER: numbers
001-09-4-05108

8. This state's 1123 treaty with the Kingdom of Jerusalem was known as the Pactum Warmundi. This
city teamed with the Papal States to oppose the early League of Cambrai. Its government was known
as the Signoria, an institution that was sometimes rolled into the (*) Council of Ten. During the Fourth
Crusade, this city used an offer of transportation to eliminate rivals like Zadar and Constantinople in a plan
connived by the devious Doge Enrico Dondolo. For 10 points, name this one time republic whose strong
navy was probably related to its numerous canals.
ANSWER: Republic of Venice
015-09-4-05109

9. This artist portrayed the power of irrationality in his painting of a sleeping man surrounded by bats
and owls. This artist included that work, The Sleep of Reason Produces Monsters, in his series of
Capriccios. He painted a man in a white shirt standing with his arms raised in the air while facing a
line of French (*) soldiers about to fire, and his depiction of Saturn Devouring His Son is part of his Black
Paintings. For ten points, name this Spanish artist of The Nude Maja and The Third of May, 1808.
ANSWER: Francisco José de Goya y Lucientes
050-09-4-05110

10. The central character of this novel listens to the work of Otto Skadelig and is spit upon by the
social worker P. R. Deltoid. This novel begins in the Korova Milk Bar and its first section ends with
the central character incapacitated by an "oozy." The title of this book comes from F. Alexander's
magnum opus, and its second section is dedicated to the corrective (*) Ludovico technique. The
protagonist of this novel loves Beethoven's Ninth Symphony and commands Dim, Pete, and George, his
droogs, while performing acts of "ultraviolence." For 10 points, name this dystopian novel by Anthony
Burgess.
ANSWER: A Clockwork Orange
020-09-4-05111

Tournament-8 Round 5 Page 2 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

11. This figure tricked Lycurgus into thinking his son was an ivy plant and killing him. After being
kidnapped by a group of sailors, this deity transformed all but Acoetes into dolphins. This god drove
Pentheus mad and caused him to be ripped apart by the (*) Maenads, and as a reward for caring for
Silenus, this god granted Midas the golden touch. This god was reborn from Zeus' thigh after his mother was
burnt to death after seeing Zeus in his full glory. For 10 points, name this son of Semele, the Greek god of
agriculture, wine, and revelry.
ANSWER: Dionysus [or Bacchus]
005-09-4-05112

12. One character in this novel nicknames himself "resurrection man" since he unearths fresh bodies
to sell to medical students. Besides Jerry Cruncher, who works for the seedy Tellson's Bank as a
runner, this novel describes a man driven insane by his prison sentence, who is rescued with the help
of Jarvis Lorry. That character is the father of a young woman sometimes called a "golden thread."
At the end of this novel, Miss Pross shoots Madame (*) Defarge in order to allow that woman, Lucy
Manette, to escape Paris. For 10 points, name this novel in which Sydney Carton sacrifices himself to save
Charles Darney during the French Revolution, written by Charles Dickens.
ANSWER: A Tale of Two Cities
032-09-4-05113

13. The main crossing of this river is the Ava Bridge, its delta is bordered by the Arakan Mountains to
the west and the Pegu Mountains to the east, and it rises in the Languela glacier. This river empties
into the Andaman Sea and it is formed by the confluence of the Nmai(*) and Mali rivers. This river's
main tributary is the Chindwin River, the port of Mandalay lies on this river, and the Rangoon River is one
of its distributaries. For 10 points, name this major river of Burma.
ANSWER: Irrawaddy River [or Ayeyarwady]
030-09-4-05114

14. A variant on this concept includes a video camera and an internal television. Objective collapse
theories attempt to resolve this apparent paradox by setting size or complexity criteria. It was
intended as a critique of the Copenhagen interpretation, and featured a (*) hammer triggered to release
and break a flask of hydrocyanic acid if an atom decays. For 10 points, name this thought experiment in
which, until the box is opened, a superposition of live and dead states is the best way to describe the title
creature.
ANSWER: Schrodinger's cat
022-09-4-05115

15. This country was the site of the Great Lakes Refugee Crisis. The murder of Belgian soldiers from
UNAMIR in this country led to the implementation of this country's Zone Turquoise. Gregoire
Kayibanda wrote a manifesto named after one of this country's ethnic groups, and the RPF rebel
group was formed in this country by Fred Rwigema. Civil unrest in this country occurred when
Juvenal Habyarimana's (*) plane containing Burundi's president was shot out of sky. For 10 points, name
this African country in which Hutus and Tutsis were at the front of its genocide.
ANSWER: Rwanda
033-09-4-05116

Tournament-8 Round 5 Page 3 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

16. One disease of this body part is known as Prasad's syndrome when present with mania. Another
disorder of this organ causes one's eyes to bulge and a non-pitting edema to develop on the lower
extremities. Those conditions affecting this gland are Hashimoto's disease and (*) Graves's disease. This
gland secretes a hormone that inhibits osteoclast activity, calcitonin. For 10 points, name this
butterfly-shaped gland, located inferior to the Adam's apple, which secretes the hormones triiodothyronine
and thyroxine, and is enlarged in the iodine deficiency disease goiter.
ANSWER: thyroid gland
022-09-4-05117

17. After the Churning of the Ocean of Milk, this figure stole amrita for the adityas in the form of a
beautiful woman. As a dwarf this figure requested three levels of land to live on in order to defeat
Bali, and he once defended Vedas against Haygriva in the form of a fish. This god, who appeared as
Mohini, (*) Vamana and Matsya, also appeared as a blue skinned king who rescued Sita from Ravana and
served as an advisor and charioteer to Arjuna. For 10 points, name this Indian sustainer god and member of
the trimurti, who descended to earth in nine avatars, including Rama and Krishna.
ANSWER: Vishnu
005-09-4-05118

18. One hundred and twenty of this city's full citizens were captured at the Battle of Sphacteria. In 371
BC, this city was defeated by Epaminondas at the Battle of Leuctra, causing it to lose power to
Thebes. Soldiers from this city-state carried shields marked with a capital lambda and wore a scarlet
robe. This city-state's general (*) Lysander won the Battle of Aegospotomi against its major rival, and it
was often rocked by revolts of helots. For 10 points, name this militaristic Greek city-state which fought the
Peloponnesian War against Athens.
ANSWER: Sparta [or Lacedaemon]
004-09-4-05119

19. A poem by Lamartine inspired this composer's tone poem Les Préludes. This teacher of Carl
Tausig used a Nikolas Lenau poem as the basis for a work also known as "The Dance in the Village
Inn," one of his Mephisto Waltzes. This composer of the (*) Transcendental Etudes included an
arrangement of the Rakoczy March in a series of piano pieces influenced by Magyar rhythms. For 10 points,
name this Hungarian composer known for his virtuosity at the piano, who composed the Hungarian
Rhapsodies.
ANSWER: Franz Liszt [or Liszt Ferenc]
023-09-4-05120

20. This element was combined with xenon to form the first two-element noble gas compound, and its
compound with uranium is used as fuel for nuclear reactors. Compounds of this element with chlorine
and carbon were banned due to their depleting the (*) ozone layer. This element is added to municipal
water supplies and toothpaste to prevent cavities, and has the highest ranking on the Pauling scale, meaning
it is the most electronegative element. For 10 points, name this element with atomic number nine and
symbol F.
ANSWER: fluorine
025-09-4-05121

Tournament-8 Round 5 Page 4 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

21. In one work by this author, the protagonist is blackmailed by Franz Kromer after lying about
stealing apples. In addition to that novel about the organist Pistorius and the student Emil Sinclair,
this author wrote a novel set in Castalia in which Joseph Knecht earns the title of Magister Ludi. This
author of (*) Demian wrote a novel in which Hermine is stabbed in Pablo's Hall of Mirrors by Harry Haller.
In another of his novels, the title prince learns enlightenment from the ferryman Vasudeva. For 10 points,
name this German author of The Glass Bead Game, Steppenwolf, and Siddhartha.
ANSWER: Hermann Hesse
015-09-4-05122

Tournament-8 Round 5 Page 5 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

Tournament-8
Round 5
Bonuses
1. Text like "Languor caused by the heat" and "drunkards are falling asleep" accompanies this composition,
along with four sonnets. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this set of violin concertos by Antonio Vivaldi that includes sections like "Spring" and "Winter."
ANSWER: The Four Seasons
[10] Vivaldi also wrote 29 concertos for this instrument, which opens Stravinsky's Rite of Spring playing an
extremely high solo passage.
ANSWER: bassoon
[10] This other composer wrote a notable bassoon concerto. He also wrote an opera in which Max courts
Agatha called The Freeshooter.
ANSWER: Carl Maria von Weber
032-09-4-05201

2. This man's oeuvre includes a twenty-volume history of the Germanic Wars and a treatise on
spear-throwing. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Roman, better known for an encyclopedic work on art and science, his Natural History.
ANSWER: Pliny the Elder [or Gaius Plinius Secundus; prompt on Pliny]
[10] Pliny the Elder died during a rescue attempt after this volcano erupted in 79 AD and destroyed
Herculaneum, Stabiae, and Pompeii.
ANSWER: Mount Vesuvius
[10] The Natural History is dedicated to this emperor, who ruled from 79 to 81 AD and opened the
Colosseum. This son of Vespasian may have been poisoned by his brother Domitian, who built a namesake
arch in his honor commemorating the sack of Jerusalem.
ANSWER: Titus [or Titus Flavius Sabinus Vespasianus]
003-09-4-05202

3. Where part of the ocean floor is higher than the surrounding area, but not sufficiently high to form an
island, this kind of structure results. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these structures that can be formed by undersea volcanoes, or may be the remains of eroded
islands.
ANSWER: seamounts
[10] This type of island is formed by coral reefs around a seamount. It typically encircles a small lagoon
below which the seamount lies.
ANSWER: atoll
[10] This man published the currently-accepted theory of atoll formation in his account of time spent as a
ship's naturalist, The Voyage of the Beagle.
ANSWER: Charles Robert Darwin
021-09-4-05203

Tournament-8 Round 5 Page 6 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

4. The 584 lines of this poem represent the 584 days of the Aztec calendar. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this poem which contains the lines, "I travel your length like a river / I travel your body like a
forest."
ANSWER: "Sunstone" [or "Piedra de Sol"]
[10] "Sunstone" was written by this Mexican Nobel laureate, who also wrote about Hanuman in The Monkey
Grammarian.
ANSWER: Octavio Paz
[10] Many of Paz's essays were collected in a book named after one of these structures "of solitude." One of
these also appears in the title of a work by Gabriel García Márquez about Simón Bolívar.
ANSWER: labyrinths
024-09-4-05204

5. Benjamin Bristow began investigating those involved in this scandal without the knowledge of the
President, whose private secretary Orville Babcock was involved. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this political scandal of the 1870s which involved Midwestern politicians and producers of a
certain type of alcohol.
ANSWER: Whiskey Ring
[10] This Union General during the Civil War was president during the Whiskey Ring. Other scandals
during his administration include the Sanborn Incident and Black Friday.
ANSWER: Ulysses Simpson Grant [or Hiram Ulysses Grant]
[10] Grant was also president during this 1872 scandal that involved the Union Pacific Railroad and ended
the careers of Oakes Ames and Schuyler Colfax.
ANSWER: Credit Mobilier
035-09-4-05205

6. This playwright lambasted America's foreign policy in his Nobel Prize acceptance speech. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this British playwright who incorporated menacing pauses in his plays, such as The Homecoming
and The Caretaker.
ANSWER: Harold Pinter
[10] In this Pinter play, Stanley Webber is abducted from Meg Boles's boarding house by Goldberg and
McCann after the title celebration.
ANSWER: The Birthday Party
[10] Pinter's plat The Dumbwaiter ends with Ben pointing one of these objects at Gus. Anton Chekhov
asserted that if one of these objects is on the wall in a play's first act, it should fire in the final act.
ANSWER: a gun [accept clear-knowledge equivalents]
032-09-4-05206

7. Name these architectural landmarks of Manhattan, for 10 points each.
[10] Completed in 1931 from a design by the Shreve, Lamb and Harmon firm, this 102-floor icon is the
tallest building in New York City.
ANSWER: Empire State Building
[10] Radiator caps and hood ornaments are incorporated into the frieze of this William Van Alen-designed
art deco tower.
ANSWER: Chrysler Building
[10] Cass Gilbert designed this 1913 skyscraper with a lobby shaped as a Christian cross and terra cotta on
the outer walls. It was financed by a five-and-dime store magnate.
ANSWER: Woolworth Building
019-09-4-05207

Tournament-8 Round 5 Page 7 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

8. The manifesto Thank You! Now Leave! was written to this country’s leaders asking them to resign
because they had jeopardized this nation’s attempt to join the EU. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this country, which participated in the Velvet divorce with Slovakia and made Vaclav Klaus its
first prime minister.
ANSWER: Czech Republic [or Ceska Republica]
[10] This playwright became the first president of the Czech Republic, and his role in the Civic Forum
allowed him to become the first non-communist leader of Czechoslovakia before then.
ANSWER: Vaclav Havel
[10] This man was made chairman of the Czechoslovak federal assembly in 1989, and he had created
“Socialism with a Human Face” before he was expelled from office for facilitating the Prague Spring.
ANSWER: Alexander Dubcek
027-09-4-05208

9. Former Dolby employee Peter Gotcher collaborated with Evan Brooks to design the ancestor of this
software in the mid-1980s. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this software from Avid's Digidesign group, which competes with Nuendo for the professional
audio mixing and digital sound capture market.
ANSWER: Pro Tools
[10] Another popular item of software in music production is this pitch correction program. It's heard
ubiquitously in Cher and T-Pain songs, and Michael Gregory uses it on "the news."
ANSWER: Auto-Tune
[10] Members of this band wore blue ribbons to the 2009 Grammys to protest Auto-Tune, which is nowhere
to be found on their songs "I Will Possess Your Heart" or "Soul Meets Body."
ANSWER: Death Cab for Cutie
019-09-4-05209

10. Based on his friendship with Delmore Schwartz, this author wrote the novel Humboldt's Gift. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this author of Seize the Day, who wrote about a letter-writing professor in Herzog.
ANSWER: Saul Bellow
[10] The title character of this picaresque Bellow novel goes to Mexico with Thea Fenchel before returning
to Chicago and marrying Stella.
ANSWER: The Adventures of Augie March
[10] Bellow aspired to become a writer after reading this classic antislavery novel by Harriet Beecher Stowe.
ANSWER: Uncle Tom's Cabin
002-09-4-05210

11. One work of anthropology considered this concept in relation to coral gardens. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this subject of James Frazer's The Golden Bough, which was compared with "science"€• and
"religion" in the title of another work.
ANSWER: magic
[10] Name the Polish anthropologist and author of Coral Gardens and their Magic and Magic, Science, and
Religion.
ANSWER: Bronislaw Kasper Malinowski
[10] Malinowski's best known work is a study of the Trobriand Islands with this title.
ANSWER: Argonauts of the Western Pacific
022-09-4-05211

Tournament-8 Round 5 Page 8 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

12. For 10 points each, answer the following questions about Southern female writers.
[10] This author wrote the allegorical novel The Ship of Fools about passengers traveling from Mexico to
Germany, as well as Flowering Judas and Pale Horse, Pale Rider.
ANSWER: Katherine Anne Porter
[10] In this short story by Shirley Jackson, Tessie Hutchinson is stoned to death in a small town after
drawing a piece of paper with a black spot on it.
ANSWER: "The Lottery"
[10] Edna Pontellier liberates herself sexually after spending time with Adèle and Mademoiselle Reisz, but
eventually commits suicide by drowning in this novel by Kate Chopin.
ANSWER: The Awakening
034-09-4-05212

13. Its sections include the tenor solo "Comfort Ye My People." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this oratorio that includes a "Hallelujah" chorus.
ANSWER: The Messiah
[10] This German-born English composer wrote Water Music and The Messiah.
ANSWER: Georg Friedrich Handel
[10] Handel composed this suite to celebrate the end of the War of the Austrian Succession. Its fourth
movement is a lively siciliana entitled La Paix.
ANSWER: Music for the Royal Fireworks [or any combination of music and royal fireworks]
032-09-4-05213

14. It is roughly equivalent to the transitive property in mathematics. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this law stating that if two systems are in thermal equilibrium with a third system, then they are
in thermal equilibrium with each other.
ANSWER: zeroth law of thermodynamics [prompt on partial answer]
[10] The first law of thermodynamics states that the change in this quantity is equal to the amount of heat
added to the system plus the amount of work done on the system.
ANSWER: internal energy
[10] This term describes a process in which no heat is added to the system; thus, the change in internal
energy equals the work done on or by the system.
ANSWER: adiabatic
003-09-4-05214

15. This nation’s Mancaland province is home to the Vumba mountains. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this country that borders Mozambique, South Africa, and Botswana, with capital at Harare.
ANSWER: Zimbabwe
[10] Within Zimbabwe are these waterfalls, which have the world’s largest volume of water when the
Zambezi river is flooded.
ANSWER: Victoria Falls
[10] This other river serves as the border of Zimbabwe with South Africa, as South Africa’s border with
Botswana. It drains into the Indian Ocean in Mozambique.
ANSWER: Limpopo River
027-09-4-05215

Tournament-8 Round 5 Page 9 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

16. This man's "True Revelation" documented his capture by Powhatan. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this founder of Jamestown who was allegedly rescued by an Indian princess.
ANSWER: John Smith
[10] This was the princess and daughter of Powhatan who allegedly rescued John Smith.
ANSWER: Pocahontas
[10] Pocahontas eventually married this other man, who is credited as the first successful grower of tobacco
in the new world.
ANSWER: John Rolfe
026-09-4-05216

17. He was invulnerable except for his heel because his mother dipped him into the river Styx. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this friend of Patroclus and great warrior-hero of the Trojan War.
ANSWER: Achilles
[10] This wife of Peleus and mother of Achilles got Hephaestus to make him armor and a shield.
ANSWER: Thetis
[10] Achilles initially tried to avoid the war by disguising himself as a girl at the court of this king of Scyros.
Achilles fathered Neoptolemus with this king's daughter Deidamia.
ANSWER: Lycomedes
015-09-4-05217

18. Name these things related to classical mechanics, for 10 points each.
[10] This system is best exemplified by a spring, but it also applies to a pendulum when the small angle
approximation holds.
ANSWER: harmonic oscillator
[10] Kinetic energy is greatest in a harmonic oscillator, whose origin is at x equals zero and whose
amplitude a means that it ranges from negative a to positive a, at this point.
ANSWER: x equals zero [or x is at the origin; accept equivalents]
[10] This quantity, equal to the kinetic minus the potential energy, is therefore also maximized at x equals
zero.
ANSWER: Lagrangian
022-09-4-05218

19. Name these feminist thinkers for 10 points each.
[10] This author of Thoughts on the Education of Daughters responded to Rousseau and Burke by argueing
that women needed to be educated rationally and were as capable as men in The Vindication of the Rights of
Women.
ANSWER: Mary Wollestonecraft
[10] This French philosopher wrote The Ethics of Ambiguity and the novel The Mandarins. She argued that
women have been historically pushed aside as "The Other" in The Second Sex.
ANSWER: Simone de Beauvoir
[10] This 20th century feminist thinker co-founded the National Organization for Women and formulated the
"Problem that Has No Name" in The Feminine Mystique.
ANSWER: Betty Friedan
005-09-4-05219

Tournament-8 Round 5 Page 10 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

20. This process is sometimes called the citric acid cycle. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this cycle in which that acid is formed from oxaloacetate. It is named for a German-born British
biochemist and precedes oxidative phosphorylation.
ANSWER: Szent-Györgyi-Krebs cycle
[10] Krebs also discovered this cycle, which in mammals only occurs in the liver. Its namesake compound
was synthesized from inorganic starting materials by Friedrich Wohler.
ANSWER: urea cycle [or ornithine cycle]
[10] The input to the urea cycle is this simple compound with formula NH3, though it is quickly protonated.
This compound is the major nitrogenous waste of marine animals.
ANSWER: ammonia
022-09-4-05220

21. For 10 points each, name these Russian authors.
[10] This author of The Mother and The Lower Depths was a major proponent of socialist realism.
ANSWER: Maxim Gorky
[10] This author collected his stories about rural serfs in A Sportsman's Sketches. He depicted the nihilist
Bazarov in Fathers and Sons.
ANSWER: Ivan Sergeyevich Turgenev
[10] This Soviet novelist wrote realistic novels about the life of Cossacks, such as Virgin Soil Upturned and
Quiet Flows the Don.
ANSWER: Mikhail Sholokhov
002-09-4-05221

Tournament-8 Round 5 Page 11 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

