Tournament-8
Round 8
Tossups
1. This figure once disguised himself as Enipeus to father Pelias and Neleus on Tyro, and some stories
claim that this figure was raised on Rhodes by the Telchines. After raping a Lapith woman, this deity
turned her into the male hero Caeneus, and he also fathered Chrysaor and Pegasus with Medusa.
With Apollo, this god built walls for King (*) Laomedon of Troy, and he lost the contest for the patronage
of Athens to Athena. With Amphitrite, he fathered the conch-horn-wielding fish-man Triton. For 10 points,
name this Greek god of earthquakes and the sea.
ANSWER: Poseidon
029-09-4-08102

2. One of this author's characters is deeply saddened by Herr Breman's demise, leading him to hold a
conference featuring Mr. Lewis and Mr. Dupont, before he is branded a Nazi sympathizer. Another of
this author's characters served for a man that invited Herr von Ribbentrop to his estate before
working for Mr. Farraday. A novel by this author focuses on the characters Miss Kenton, Lord (*)
Darlington, and his butler Stevens. For 10 points, name this author of The Unconsoled and The Remains of
the Day, a British novelist born in Japan.
ANSWER: Kazuo Ishiguro
033-09-4-08103

3. One theater of this war began when an object was displayed in the House of Commons by the
captain of the Rebecca, sparking the War of Jenkin's Ear. One battle in this war was won by Count
Schwerin after his commander fled at Mollwitz. This war featured the last time an English monarch
led troops into battle when George II fought at Dettingen. This war gave the territory of (*) Silesia to
Prussia through the treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle. For 10 points, name this war caused by the Pragmatic
Sanction, which pitted Frederick the Great against the recently ascended Maria Theresa.
ANSWER: War of the Austrian Succession [or King George's War before "Mollwitz"; prompt on "War of
Jenkin's Ear" before mentioned]
023-09-4-08104

4. Early in this novel, Pietro Crespi commits suicide because he cannot marry the orphan Rebeca. A
major character in this novel first thinks that he has seen the largest diamond in the world when
gypsies present him with ice. The work concludes when (*) Melquíades’s prophecies are fulfilled, and a
baby with a pigtail is born after Amaranta Úrsula and Aureliano commit incest. For 10 points, name this
novel set in Macondo and following the Buendía family, written by Gabriel Garcia Marquez.
ANSWER: One Hundred Years of Solitude [or Cien años de soledad]
034-09-4-08105

5. This artist painted a mosaic in the Chigi Chapel depicting the creation of the world, as well as
portraits of Baldassare Castiglione and Pope Julius II. Dante Gabriel Rossetti and John Millais were
members of a movement attempting to return to the paintings created (*) before the works of this artist,
whose most famous work is located in the Stanza della Segnatura in the Vatican and centers around Plato
and Aristotle. For 10 points, name this Renaissance artist of The School of Athens.
ANSWER: Raphael Sanzio
024-09-4-08106

Tournament-8 Round 8 Page 1 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. This poet wrote that he heard "the sound of that advancing multitude / Which soon shall fill these
deserts" in his poem about the "gardens of the desert," "The Prairies." Another poem by this author
describes a figure "darkly seen against the crimson sky," and asserts that the being which guides its
"certain flight" will also "lead [his] steps aright." This poet depicted "The innumerable caravan
which moves / To that mysterious realm" in a poem about coming to terms with (*) mortality, whose
name means "meditation upon death." For 10 points, name this American poet of "To a Waterfowl" and
"Thanatopsis."
ANSWER: William Cullen Bryant
023-09-4-08107

7. This anthropologist wanted to study a living and functioning folklore and found a disagreement
between that folklore and the culture of one society in the work Zuni Mythology. Another work by this
anthropologist described the Zuni as Apollonian, while the (*) Kwakiutl were Dionysian and the Dobu
schizophrenic. Another work by this woman distinguished between shame and guilt cultures. For 10 points,
name this American anthropologist and student of Franz Boas, who wrote the works Patterns of Culture and
The Chrysanthemum and the Sword.
ANSWER: Ruth Benedict [accept Ruth Fulton]
023-09-4-08108

8. The CKM matrix explains several reactions mediated by this interaction, which Cronin and Fitch
showed violates CP symmetry and which Glashow, Salam, and Weinberg showed emerged from the
breaking of an SU(2) x U(1) gauge symmetry. Madame Wu's experiment that demonstrated parity
violation relied on a (*) pion decay mediated by this force, and this force governs the conversion of an up
quark into a superposition of down quarks. For 10 points, name this force essential to nuclear decays,
mediated by the W and Z bosons, which has much less influence over subatomic particles than the one
mediated by gluons, the strong force.
ANSWER: weak nuclear force [or weak interaction]
022-09-4-08109

9. One running back at this university ran for over seven yards per carry as a junior and scored five
touchdowns in the 1988 Holiday Bowl. In 2007 this school's current head football coach tiraded at
reporters to go after him, claiming, (*) "I'm a man! I'm forty!" Those alumni are Barry Sanders and Mike
Gundy. In 2009 it defeated Georgia to earn a top five ranking before losing at home to Houston. For 10
points, name this university whose stars include wide receiver Dez Bryant, and which plays an in-state
rivalry game with the University of Oklahoma.
ANSWER: Oklahoma State University
002-09-4-08110

10. An amendment to the bill which legalized this program was added by Everett Dirksen while other
members of Congress were at a luncheon. Edward Stettinius served as the first head of the this
program. Operation Cedar was part of this program which replaced (*) Cash and Carry and was similar
to the earlier Destroyers for Bases Agreement. For 10 points, name this program under which the United
States provided billions of dollars worth of war material to China, the Soviet Union and Allied Nations
during World War Two.
ANSWER: Lend-Lease
035-09-4-08111

Tournament-8 Round 8 Page 2 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

11. The alternating harmonic series converges to this function of two; that fact can be proven using
the Mercator series, a special Taylor series for this function. The integral of the tangent of x is equal to
this function of the secant of x. That identity is a special case of the identity that the integral of f prime
of x over f of x, dx, is equal to (*) this function of f of x. The derivative of this function is one over x. For
10 points, name this function that is the inverse of the exponential with base e.
ANSWER: natural logarithm [prompt on logarithm]
003-09-4-08112

12. This country fought Norway in the Battle of Largs under King Alexander III. It's centuries old
pact with France was known as the Auld Alliance. Mary of Guise married one king of this country
who died just after losing the battle of Solway Moss. This country's reformation was pioneered by the
galley slave and (*) Presbyterianism founder John Knox. England's Stuart dynasty began when James VI of
this country became James I of England. For 10 points, name this formerly independent British country
found to the north of England.
ANSWER: Scotland
015-09-4-08113

13. This figure is thought to have fathered Sobek with Neith. He referred to as the "Lord of the
Northern Sky" in the Book of the Dead. In order to protect Ra during his journey through the
underworld, this deity battled the serpent Apep every night. This god's wife (*) Nepthys cheated on him
and gave birth to Anubis. This god was tricked into giving the throne of united Egypt to his brother's son
after he stole Horus's eye. For 10 points, name this Egyptian god of evil and chaos who chopped up and
killed his brother Osiris.
ANSWER: Set [or Seth or Seteh or Sutekh]
005-09-4-08114

14. One rebellion in this city led to temporary rule by the Sixteen. This city's streets were said to be
impervious to the building of barricades after it was renovated under Baron Haussmann. It lends its
name to that treaty ending the (*) Seven Years' War, and for two months this city was the home of a
government crushed by Marshall MacMahon and led by Louis Auguste Blanqui, its namesake commune.
For 10 points, name the city on the Seine that was the site of the execution of people like Marie Antoinette
and Robespierre.
ANSWER: Paris
032-09-4-08115

15. After singing the aria "Pari siamo!", this work's title character greets his daughter in the duet
"Figlia! Mio padre!" This opera's title character sings "Bella figlia dell'amore" as its antagonist
attempts to woo Maddalena, and this work opens with that (*) antagonist's aria "Questa o quella". The
title character, who suffers from the curse of Count Monterone, hires the assassin Sparafucile to kill the
Duke of Mantua, who sings the canzone "La donna è mobile". For 10 points, identify this opera based on
Victor Hugo's Le roi s'amuse, a Verdi work about a jester.
ANSWER: Rigoletto
029-09-4-08116

Tournament-8 Round 8 Page 3 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

16. The Eotvos equation relates temperature and this property, and the Marangoni effect involves
gradients in it. LaPlace's law gives an inverse relationship between this value and the radius of alveoli
in the lung. Because bile lowers this quantity for (*) urine, it can be used to test for jaundice in the Hays
test, and this property causes liquid to rise through thin tubes in capillary action. This quantity, which is
measured in dynes per centimeter, is lowered by surfactants like detergents. For 10 points, name this
property of liquids caused by intermolecular attractive forces that allows some insects to walk on water.
ANSWER: surface tension
032-09-4-08117

17. Usman dan Fodio founded the Sokoto Caliphate in this country in the early 19th century, and its
Jos Plateau served as the center of the Nok civilization. Port Harcourt serves as the capital of this
nation's Rivers State, and its city of Kano(*) is the center of its Hausa people. This nation is bordered to
the south by the Bight of Bonny and Bight of Benin, which are parts of the Gulf of Guinea, and the Republic
of Biafra was a secessionist movement here led by its Igbo people. For 10 points, name this African nation
whose largest city is Lagos, and whose capital is Abuja.
ANSWER: Federal Republic of Nigeria
035-09-4-08118

18. This author wrote a story about a German whose crocodile swallows the narrator's friend alive.
Makar and Varvara exchange letters in this author's novel Poor Folk, and another of his novels
depicts the life of convicts in Siberia. This author of The (*) House of the Dead described the parable of
the Grand Inquisitor in a novel about Smerdyakov, who murders Ivan Karamazov. Another novel by this
author centers on the murder of a pawnbroker by Raskolnikov. For 10 points, name this Russian author of
Crime and Punishment.
ANSWER: Fyodor Mikhaylovich Dostoyevsky
020-09-4-08119

19. The 26th of these works opens with three notes representing the word "Lebewohl". The adagio
sostenuto third movement of the 29th of them was followed by an unusual fourth movement, a
three-voice fugue that resembles their composer's Grosse Fuge. Those works of this type are
nicknamed the "Les Adieux" and the (*) "Hammerklavier". The fourteenth of these works, entitled "Quasi
una fantasia", was given a nickname inspired by nighttime on Lake Lucerne. For 10 points, identify these
compositions by Ludwig van Beethoven, whose titles include "Appassionata", "Waldstein", and
"Moonlight".
ANSWER: Ludwig van Beethoven's piano sonatas [prompt on sonatas; accept piano sonatas after
Beethoven]]
029-09-4-08120

20. The specificity of these objects was discovered by Marshall Nirenberg. Their name was coined by
Sydney Brenner, who matched two of them to the "amber" and "ochre" mutations. Along with
"opal," those colors have been used to describe the three ones that cause termination. The (*) wobble
effect occurs when the value of the last component of one is changed but the product is unaltered.
Methionine is produced by the "start" one, which is designated by the sequence AUG. For 10 points, name
these triples of base pairs that specify the production of an amino acid.
ANSWER: codons
033-09-4-08121

Tournament-8 Round 8 Page 4 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

21. The protagonist of this novel is banned from the Men's House after emptying a spittoon on a
preacher's head. This novel was expanded from a short story in which young men are forced to box
blindfolded, "Battle Royal." The protagonist of this novel joins the (*) Brotherhood, which is opposed
by Ras the Exhorter; the resulting tension culminates in a race riot in Harlem which leads the protagonist to
start a new life underground. For 10 points, name this masterpiece of Ralph Ellison.
ANSWER: Invisible Man
024-09-4-08122

Tournament-8 Round 8 Page 5 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

Tournament-8
Round 8
Bonuses
1. A Buddhist monk loses the title body part in his short story "The Nose." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this author of "Rashomon" and "In a Grove," the namesake of the highest Japanese literary
award.
ANSWER: Akutagawa Ryuunosuke
[10] This Japanese author won the 1958 Akutagawa award for his story "Prize Stock." He often writes about
his brain-damaged son, Hikari, such as in his novel A Personal Matter.
ANSWER: Oe Kenzaburo
[10] This author of The Temple of the Golden Pavilion committed seppuku in 1970 after failing to inspire a
coup to reinstate the emperor.
ANSWER: Mishima Yukio
002-09-4-08201

2. This material is found in primary and secondary types, the latter of which stems from the vascular
cambium. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this vascular material that uses transpirational pull and root pressure to distribute water to plants.
ANSWER: xylem
[10] Xylem is typically contrasted with this other vascular tissue that carries organic nutrients around a
plant.
ANSWER: phloem
[10] Phloem originates from the apical type of this plant tissue that consists of undifferentiated cells. It is
analogous to stem cell tissue in animals.
ANSWER: apical meristem
026-09-4-08202

3. This city was originally known as Yathrib and was the destination of Muhammad's 622 flight called the
Hijra. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Saudi city and second most sacred Islamic site.
ANSWER: Medina
[10] The Hijra began in this other Saudi Arabia city, the home of the Kaaba and the destination of the Hajj,
or pilgrimage.
ANSWER: Mecca
[10] Muslims face qibla, the direction of Mecca, five times a day while praying, upholding this pillar of
Islam.
ANSWER: Salat
015-09-4-08203

4. This man attempted to institute a religion called the Cult of the Supreme Being. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this leader of the Committee of Public Safety who sent thousands of people to the guillotine
during the French Revolution's Reign of Terror.
ANSWER: Maximilien Marie Isidore de Robespierre
[10] The French Revolution was sparked when citizens of Paris led by Camille Desmoulins stormed this
royal prison on July fourteenth, 1789.
ANSWER: the Bastille
[10] Robespierre was deposed and arrested during this conservative revolt against the Jacobins, which took
place on the ninth day of the eleventh month of the French Revolutionary calendar.
ANSWER: Thermidorian Reaction
004-09-4-08204
Tournament-8 Round 8 Page 6 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

5. Name these National Parks in California, for 10 points each:
[10] This park in the Sierra Nevadas was preserved due to the work of John Muir, and contains such features
as Bridalveil Falls, El Capitan and Half Dome.
ANSWER: Yosemite National Park
[10] This park, which is contiguous with Kings Canyon National Park, contains Mount Whitney as well as
General Sherman.
ANSWER: Sequoia National Park
[10] This park is located in the Mojave Desert, particularly in San Bernardino County, and like Sequoia, this
national park is named after a type of tree.
ANSWER: Joshua Tree National Park
035-09-4-08205

6. One central idea of this study is the law of mass action, and it also considers the influence of catalysts. For
10 points each:
[10] Name this field, concerned with the rate at which chemical reactions occur.
ANSWER: chemical kinetics
[10] This describes the kinetics of a reaction dependent on the concentration of only one reagent
ANSWER: first order
[10] A classic example of a first order reaction is the conversion of a tertiary halide into a tertiary amine; in
this reaction, the molecule of ammonia is referred to as this, while the halide is the leaving group.
ANSWER: nucleophile
022-09-4-08206

7. A Ukrainian folk music style known for a slow lament in the opening and closing with a somewhat faster
middle section was the basis for this man's Dumky Trio. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Czech composer of the opera Russalka who is well known for a piece inspired by his years
living in the United States.
ANSWER: Antonin Dvorak
[10] This Dvorak symphony, his ninth, includes a theme in the first movement that resembles "Swing Low,
Sweet Chariot," and the second movement's English horn theme was set to the words of "Goin' Home."
ANSWER: From the New World [or Opus 95; or Z nového sv?ta]
[10] Brahms' Hungarian Dances served as a model for these sets of Dvorak work, which borrowed from the
folk tradition of Bohemia and Moravia and they include forms such as Dumka, Polkas, and Skocnas.
ANSWER: Slavonic Dances
030-09-4-08207

8. This character has an affair with the future Jenny Waters, who is accused of being his mother. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this foundling cared for by Squire Allworthy, who wins the love of Sophia Western.
ANSWER: Tom Jones
[10] This English author of Tom Jones parodied the novel Pamela in Joseph Andrews and Shamela.
ANSWER: Henry Fielding
[10] Pamela was written by this eighteenth century English novelist of Clarissa.
ANSWER: Samuel Richardson
027-09-4-08208

Tournament-8 Round 8 Page 7 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

9. For 10 points each, name these Venetian artists.
[10] This creator of the Pesaro Madonna painted Sacred and Profane Love as well as Venus of Urbino.
ANSWER: Titian [or Tiziano Vecelli]
[10] This artist of The Miracle of the Slave painted a version of The Last Supper showing the scene from an
angle. His name means "little dyer."
ANSWER: Tintoretto [or Jacopo Comin; or Jacopo Robusti]
[10] Titian may have finished the landscape of this painter's Sleeping Venus. He also painted The Three
Philosophers and The Tempest.
ANSWER: Giorgione [or Giorgio Barbarelli da Castelfranco]
035-09-4-08209

10. ?Future Vice-President William Rufus King gave this town its name after one of the fraudulent Ossian
poems. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Alabama city that was the start of a historic 1965 civil rights march led by Martin Luther
King, in protest of violence against demonstrators at its Edmund Pettus Bridge.
ANSWER: Selma
[10] The march that started at Selma ended fifty miles to the east in this city, where King and Rosa Parks
had led a boycott of the bus system nine years earlier.
ANSWER: Montgomery
[10] Among the participants in the Selma-to-Montgomery march was this retired diplomat, who won a
Nobel Peace Prize for negotiating an end to the first Arab-Israeli war in 1949.
ANSWER: Ralphe Johnson Bunche
019-09-4-08210

11. It is also named for its formulators, Gillespie and Nyholm. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this model used to predict the shape of molecules based on electron-pair electrostatic repulsion.
ANSWER: VSEPR ("vesper") theory [accept valence shell electron pair repulsion theory]
[10] VSEPR theory predicts that carbon dioxide will take on this form, because it has two covalent bonds
and no lone pairs.
ANSWER: linear
[10] Compounds like SF4 will take on this geometry according to VSEPR theory, because they have four
bonded groups and one lone pair.
ANSWER: seesaw
026-09-4-08211

12. She wrote the libretto to Virgil Thomson’s opera Four Saints in Three Acts and a work about her
companion Alice B. Toklas. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this woman who is credited with giving the name to the “Lost Generation.”
ANSWER: Gertrude Stein
[10] Gertrude Stein repeated that this word is this word is this word in the poem “Sacred Emily.” Robert
Burns wrote that his love is like a red, red one of these flowers.
ANSWER: rose
[10] Gertrude Stein’s work about Alice B. Toklas is misleadingly named one of these. Pentimento by Lilian
Hellman is another one of these kinds of works.
ANSWER: autobiography [prompt on memoir]
027-09-4-08212

Tournament-8 Round 8 Page 8 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

13. This figure was aided in his most famous accomplishment by Hanuman and a group of Vanaras, and his
brothers Bharata and Shatrughna guarded his kingdom while he was away. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this warrior-king of Ayodhya, the namesake of a Sanskrit epic, who with the help of his brother
Lakshmana rescued his wife Sita from her imprisonment on Lanka.
ANSWER: Rama [or Ramachandra; prompt on Ramayana]
[10] Rama's wife Sita is herself an avatar of this Hindu goddess of wealth and prosperity, who rides an owl
and is sometimes known as Padma.
ANSWER: Lakshmi [or Mahalakshmi]
[10] The primary antagonist of the Ramayana is this villainous king of the Rakshasas who killed Jatayu
while kidnapping Sita.
ANSWER: Ravana [or Ravan]
029-09-4-08213

14. Name the missing quantities in the following physical formulas, for 10 points each.
[10] According to Newton's second law, the net force on a body is equal to its mass multiplied by this
quantity.
ANSWER: acceleration
[10] Classically, this quantity is equal to an object's mass multiplied by its velocity, meaning force is the
time derivative of this quantity.
ANSWER: linear momentum
[10] The square root of one over the permeability of free space times the permittivity of free space yields
this constant.
ANSWER: the speed of light [accept obvious equivalents]
025-09-4-08214

15. For 10 points each, name these thinkers who wrote about sex.
[10] This professor at Indiana University developed a seven-point scale between homosexuality and
heterosexuality during his research about sex, which he published as Sexual Behavior in the Human Male.
ANSWER: Alfred Kinsey
[10] This theorist analyzed the evolution of modern sexuality in The History of Sexuality and wrote about
the emergence of the concept of mental illness in Madness and Civilization.
ANSWER: Michel Foucault
[10] This Austrian psychologist argued that the sexual drive, or libido, in the unconscious id conflicted with
the needs of the ego. He also developed the techniques of psychoanalysis to treat patients.
ANSWER: Sigmund Freud
004-09-4-08215

16. This character starts out as a Magi-Peel salesman. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this former basketball star who got his nickname from his propensity to stick out his front teeth
when playing hoops. He appears "Rich" and "at Rest" in a series of novels.
ANSWER: Rabbit Angstrom [or Harold "Harry" Angstrom; accept any of the underlined parts]
[10] Harry Angstrom appears in the Rabbit series, which includes the novel Rabbit Run, by this American
author of The Centaur.
ANSWER: John Hoyer Updike
[10] John Updike also wrote about the "Witches" and "Widows" of this fictional Rhode Island town.
ANSWER: Eastwick
026-09-4-08216

Tournament-8 Round 8 Page 9 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

17. This man unsuccessfully petitioned Woodrow Wilson to install a new nationalist government in his
home country. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this man who delivered lectures at the Whampoa Academy, betrayed Phan Boi Chau to stir up
anti-French sentiment, and became the namesake of the former city of Saigon.
ANSWER: Ho Chi Minh [or Nguyen Sinh Cung; or Nguyen Ai Quoc]
[10] Ho Chi Minh was a communist leader of the North of this country, which fought a war with the United
States during the 1960s and 70s. Its south was led by Ngo Dinh Diem.
ANSWER: Socialist Republic of Vietnam [or Cong hoa xa hoi chu nghia Viet Nam]
[10] Centuries earlier, the Vietnamese Trung Sisters rebelled against this Chinese Dynasty, which was led by
Wu Di and interrupted by the Xin Dynasty of Wang Mang.
ANSWER: Han Dynasty
020-09-4-08217

18. This sonnet ends by telling its subject, "Thou shalt die." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this poem by the author of "A Valediction: Forbidding Mourning," whose title phrase is followed
by "though some have called thee / mighty and dreadful."
ANSWER: "Death be not proud" [or Holy Sonnet 10]
[10] This English poet wrote "Death be not proud" as well as "The Flea" and "A Valediction: Forbidding
Mourning."
ANSWER: John Donne
[10] "Death be not proud" is the tenth of this group of fourteen-line poems by Donne, the fourteenth of
which begins "Batter my heart, three-person'd God."
ANSWER: Holy Sonnets
024-09-4-08218

19. He wrote Music For Strings, Percussion, and Celesta, as well as a series of piano works collected as
Mikrokosmos. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this composer of a “Concerto for Orchestra” as well as The Miraculous Mandarin and Duke
Bluebeard’s Castle .
ANSWER: Bela Bartok [or Bartok Bela]
[10] Although Bela Bartok was technically born in Romania, he worked in this country. He published
collections of Magyar folk tunes he transcribed here.
ANSWER: Hungary
[10] Another composer from Hungary was this man, who wrote “The Viennese Musical Clock” as part of
his Hary Janos suite.
ANSWER: Zoltan Kodaly [or Kodaly Zoltan]
027-09-4-08219

20. This period followed the end of the Rurik Dynasty, and Boris Gudonov was unsuccessful in preventing
it. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this period of Russian history that lasted from 1605 to 1613 and saw constant invasions from
neighbors.
ANSWER: Time of Troubles or Smutnoye Vremya
[10] During the Time of Troubles, three people with this name claimed to be heirs to the Russian throne as
descendents of Ivan the Terrible.
ANSWER: False Dimitriy
[10] In 1613, this man was elected czar by the Zemsky Sobor. He founded a dynasty which lasted until the
1918 Russian revolution.
ANSWER: Michael Romanov
038-09-4-08220
Tournament-8 Round 8 Page 10 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

21. This author caused controversy by writing about a character with syphilis in his play Ghosts. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this Norwegian playwright of An Enemy of the People and Peer Gynt.
ANSWER: Henrik Ibsen
[10] After the title character of this Ibsen play burns the manuscript of Eilert Lovborg's new book, he
commits suicide, causing her to shoot herself to become free from the clutches of Judge Brack.
ANSWER: Hedda Gabler
[10] In this Ibsen play, the architect Halvard Solness builds a tall church for Hilda Wangel, but falls from it
to his death.
ANSWER: The Master Builder [or Bygmester Solness]
004-09-4-08221

Tournament-8 Round 8 Page 11 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

