Tournament-9
Round 8
Tossups
1. In this country, a major political party's breakaway faction, calling itself the "Everyone's Party" or
"Your Party" won five seats in the most recent general election. This country's Communist party
retained nine seats, and eighteen defeated candidates retained seats through the "block" system, in
that same recent election in this country. For only the second time in the last (*) fifty years, this
country's Democratic Party took power from its more dominant Liberal Democratic Party, following the
resignation of Taro Aso. For 10 points, identify this country which saw a seismic shift in political power in
its 2009 general election, which made Hatoyama Yukio its new prime minister.
ANSWER: Japan
002-09-6-08102

2. A modern technique for performing this action uses luciferase, ATP sulfurylase, and released
pyrophosphate. That technique does not require an autoradiograph or monomers with missing three
prime hydroxyls. A better known method uses (*) chain terminators, known as dideoxynucleotides
(DIE-de-ox-ee-NEW-clee-oh-tides), with attached dyes in four columns. That method is named for
Frederick Sanger. For 10 points, name this problem of determining the order of A,T,C, and Gs in a particular
set of DNA.
ANSWER: DNA sequencing
001-09-6-08103

3. This President dishonorably discharged some African-American soldiers after the Brownsville
Incident. In one of his campaigns he ran on the "New Nationalism" platform. Among this man's
foreign policy achievements was the Gentleman's Agreement with Japan. Following his defeat of Alton
B. (*) Parker, this President signed legislation such as the Hepburn Act and the Pure Food and Drug Act to
fulfill his Square Deal program. After being shot in Milwaukee, this man claimed that more was required to
kill a bull moose. For 10 points, identify this one-time leader of the Rough Riders, who became President in
1901 after the assassination of William McKinley.
ANSWER: Theodore Roosevelt [or Teddy Roosevelt; prompt on Roosevelt]
043-09-6-08104

4. In one drama by this man, the title character finds a secret bank book after a tip from the Duchess
of Berwick; that book shows that her husband has been giving money to another woman. That work
by this man ends when the title object is returned by Mrs. Erlynne to her daughter, Margaret. This
man also wrote a work in which it is revealed that Miss (*) Prism left a handbag with a baby in a train
station. For 10 points, name this Irish playwright of Lady Windermere's Fan and The Importance of Being
Ernest, whose only novel was The Picture of Dorian Gray.
ANSWER: Oscar Wilde
023-09-6-08105

5. The Scandinavian-inspired mansion Vikingsholm sits near the coast of Emerald Bay in this body of
water. The only island in this body of water is Fanette Island, and Eagle Falls flows directly into it.
The Truckee River flows directly from this (*) lake to Pyramid Lake. Towns near this lake include the
host of the 1960 Winter Olympics, Squaw Valley. The closest major city to it is Reno, Nevada. For 10
points, name this lake on the California-Nevada border, which is a major tourist attraction due to its
numerous nearby ski resorts.
ANSWER: Lake Tahoe
003-09-6-08106

Tournament-9 Round 8 Page 1 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. One historian of this polity alleged that one of its rulers had the ability to detach his head from his
body in a book about scandals at this state’s court, the Secret History of Procopius. This political
entity briefly ruled Italy through the Exarchate (ECKS-arr-kate) of Ravenna, after its general Narses
(NAR-sayz) overthrew the rule of the Ostrogoths. Narses joined a colleague, (*) Belisarius, to defend
this empire against chariot hooligans by suppressing the Nika revolt. For 10 points, identify this state ruled
by Justinian, which lasted at Constantinople until it was conquered by the Ottomans in 1453.
ANSWER: Byzantine Empire [or Byzantium; or Eastern Roman Empire; prompt on Roman Empire
before “exarchate” is read; do not accept or prompt on “Roman Empire” afterwards]
019-09-6-08107

7. The Ackermann function cannot be expressed without using this procedure, and every effectively
calculable function is general this by Church's thesis. All functions defined by course-of-values this
are primitive this, and operations expressed using the "tail" form of this may easily be translated into
(*) iteration. Binary search uses this process to repeatedly divide a list into halves. Often used to calculate
elements of the Fibonacci sequence or values of the factorial function, for 10 points, name this process
wherein a function calls itself.
ANSWER: recursion [or word forms such as recursive]
022-09-6-08108

8. This man was excommunicated from the Catholic Church after he issued a harsh prison sentence to
Archbishop Aloysius Stepinac (ALL-oh-ish-uss steh-PEE-notch). For such sins as bugging his sleeping
quarters, this man fired his heir apparent, Aleksandar Rankovic (rahn-CO-vich). This leader was the
first Secretary-General of the (*) Non-Aligned Movement, having been expelled from the Soviet-run
Cominform in 1948. For 10 points, name this one-time partisan fighter during World War II, who ruled from
1953 to 1980 in Yugoslavia.
ANSWER: Josip Broz Tito [or Josip Broz]
052-09-6-08109

9. Jane Elliott conducted exercises with students in the 1960s to examine the effects of this
phenomenon. Kenneth and Mamie Clark's "doll" experiments were introduced into the case of Briggs
v. Elliott to examine the impact of this. In a 1954 book, Gordon Allport stated that authoritarian
personalities are more likely going to exhibit this. Stokely Carmichael theorized about the (*)
"institutional" kind of it. A much-derided 1975 United Nations resolution formally equated Zionism with,
for 10 points, what worldview that some ethnic groups are innately superior to others?
ANSWER: racism [or obvious equivalents]
030-09-6-08110

10. This composer's D-major violin concerto contains a raucous Hungarian-inspired third movement,
and is dedicated to Joseph Joachim. One of his compositions was based on Kelar Bela's csardas. He set
passages from Martin Luther's translation of the Bible in another of his works, which was inspired by
the deaths of Schumann and this composer's (*) mother. His use of the rhythm of another composer's
"fate knocking on the door" motif led to his first symphony being dubbed "Beethoven's Tenth." For 10
points, name this composer of the Hungarian Dances, German Requiem, and namesake "Lullaby."
ANSWER: Johannes Brahms
026-09-6-08111

Tournament-9 Round 8 Page 2 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

11. In one work, this character describes the doctrines of his mentor, Diotima, about love. This
character relates the story of Er to demonstrate the immortality of the soul, and refutes
Thrasymachus's idea that justice is "the advantage of the stronger." This character compares himself
to a gadfly stinging a lazy horse to describe his method of questioning established beliefs, and defends
himself from (*) Meletus's charges of atheism and corrupting the youth of Athens in the Apology. For 10
points, name this subject of Meno, Crito, and Phaedo, as well as many other dialogues by his student Plato.
ANSWER: Socrates
004-09-6-08112

12. Gaseous uranium hexafluoride is manipulated in a variant of this process, yielding U-235 and
U-238. A derivation from the continuity equation explains this process, which is governed by Fick's
laws. A related phenomenon to this one is governed by Graham's law, and carrier proteins(*) are used
for the passive "facilitated" form across the plasma membrane. Hypotonic and hypertonic solutions can be
produced when this process happens to water, known as osmosis. For 10 points, name this general motion of
particles from regions of higher to lower concentration.
ANSWER: diffusion [prompt on "effusion" in case people are confused]
020-09-6-08113

13. In one of this composer's operas, the lead tenor sings "Di quella pira" after learning that his
mother is going to be burned to death on a pyre. That opera by this composer contains an aria about
walking through fire, "Stride (STREE-day) la Vampa," and ends with Azucena revealing that the
Count di Luca has executed his brother, Manrico. This composer of the (*) "Anvil Chorus" wrote the
aria "La Donna e Mobile" for his tragic opera about a jester. He composed another opera that ends with
Radames dying in a tomb along with an Egyptian princess. For 10 points, name this Italian composer of Il
Trovatore, Rigoletto, and Aida (eye-EE-duh).
ANSWER: Giuseppe Verdi
004-09-6-08114

14. One character in this novel loves Pietro Crespi and dies after she finishes weaving a funeral
shroud. Another character in this book goes insane and is tied to a chestnut tree. One of that man's
sons has seventeen children, all with the same name, and spends much of his time carving golden fish.
Those characters, (*) Amaranta (ah-mahr-AHN-tah), José Arcadio, and Colonel Aureliano, are all members
of the Buendía (bwen-DEE-uh) family. For 10 points, name this novel which takes place in Macondo and is
the magnum opus of Gabriel García Márquez.
ANSWER: One Hundred Years of Solitude [or A Hundred Years of Solitude; or Cien años de soledad]
024-09-6-08115

15. In Jainism, this holiday celebrates the tirthankara Mahavira’s passage into Nirvana. In Sikhism,
Guru Hargobind’s release from prison is celebrated on this festival. Kali is the subject of this
holiday’s devotion in Bengal. Other (*) worshippers use this holiday to commemorate Hanuman,
Lakshmana, Sita, and Rama’s return to the city of Ayodhya. It’s fourth day is the first day of Karttika. For
10 points, name this holiday in Hinduism that involves lighting millions of candles across the country.
ANSWER: diwali [or divali]
027-09-6-08116

Tournament-9 Round 8 Page 3 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

16. One novel by this man describes Gene Harrogate, who mishandles watermelons and tried to shoot
bats with poisoned meat. In another of his novels, Alejandra convinces her aunt to pay the ransom for
two men who meet Jimmy Blevins. Besides writing about Suttree and John Grady Cole, this author
also described a kid who travels with Captain White and later the Glanton gang. This author's Cities
of the Plain and The Crossing are collected in his Border Trilogy, along with (*) All the Pretty Horses.
For 10 points, name this author of the contemporary Westerns Blood Meridian, The Road, and No Country
For Old Men.
ANSWER: Cormac McCarthy
036-09-6-08117

17. The NIF uses these in an attempt to generate fusion and one technique involving these is
q-switching. An important process in their function is population inversion, and their operation
involves pumping. Types include the free electron variety, and solid state ones can use ruby as a
medium. They produce (*) coherent light and a simple design uses two mirrors, one partially reflective. For
10 points, identify these that amplify light by stimulated emission of radiation.
ANSWER: laser [or light amplified by stimulated emission of radiation before “amplify”]
001-09-6-08118

18. This man ruled over a court that stripped a Rhode Island veteran of his farm in West v. Barnes.
This man negotiated a treaty with Britain that led to the British abandonment of forts in the
Northwest; that treaty was so unpopular that this man was burned in effigy all over the U.S. This man
warned about foreign influence in four of his contributions to the (*) Federalist Papers. This man also
presided over a case in which a state cited its sovereignty to deny the ability of a citizen to sue it. For 10
points, name this Founding Father who presided over Chisholm v. Georgia because he was the first Chief
Justice of the Supreme Court.
ANSWER: John Jay
036-09-6-08119

19. This poet wrote of having "a house on high erect, Fram'd by that mighty Architect" after waking
to "thund'ring noise, and piteous shrieks" in one poem. In that work, this poet also described how
"pleasant things in ashes lie" after the title event. This poet wrote another work in which the title
object is described as an "ill-formed offspring of" a (*) "feeble brain." For 10 points, name this American
poet of Verses Upon the Burning of Our House and The Author to Her Book, who wrote The Tenth Muse
Lately Sprung Up in America in colonial Massachusetts.
ANSWER: Anne Bradstreet
023-09-6-08120

20. One of this artist's paintings depicts the white Eiffel Tower in a window behind this artist himself,
painting a horse. Another of this painter's canvasses contains four floating, cloak-clad figures around
the central scene, which is also surrounded by tumbling houses and a burning synagogue. This artist
of Self-Portrait with (*) Seven Fingers and The White Crucifixion often depicted scenes from his hometown
of Vitebsk. He painted two upside-down houses above the large faces of a lamb and a green-skinned man in
another of his canvasses. For 10 points, name this Jewish painter from Belarus who painted I and the Village
.
ANSWER: Marc Chagall [or Moshe Shagal]
026-09-6-08121

Tournament-9 Round 8 Page 4 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

21. This politician's half-brother Austen won a Nobel Peace Prize for negotiating the 1925 Locarno
Pact. This man was appointed Chancellor of the Exchequer by Stanley Baldwin, a man whom he
subsequently replaced as Prime Minister. This politician made his own internal party rival into the
First Lord of the (*) Admiralty. For 10 points, name this British prime minister who claimed he had
achieved "peace in our time" when he signed the 1938 Munich Pact with Adolf Hitler, but was replaced by
Winston Churchill two years later.
ANSWER: Neville Chamberlain
025-09-6-08122

22. Characters in this work include the tax collector Binet, and Bournisien, who has theological
arguments with an apothecary. The protagonist meets Léon at a performance of Lucia di
Lammermoor after a failed (*) operation on Hippolyte's clubfoot precipitates her family's financial
troubles. Her former lover, Rodolphe Boulanger, refuses to help her, and she commits suicide by swallowing
arsenic. For 10 points, name this novel about the wife of Charles, by Gustave Flaubert.
ANSWER: Madame Bovary
024-09-6-08123

23. By the free-electron model, the resistivity of a metal is proportional to the square root of this
quantity. Wien's Law states that the peak wavelength for blackbody emission is proportional to one
over this quantity. By the Stefan-Boltzmann Law, the flux emitted by a blackbody is proportional to
the (*) fourth power of this quantity. The rate of heat transfer is proportional to the gradient of this quantity,
which is related to the average kinetic energy of a system's molecules. For 10 points, name this quantity
measured in scales named after Kelvin and Fahrenheit.
ANSWER: temperature [or T]
003-09-6-08124

Tournament-9 Round 8 Page 5 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

Tournament-9
Round 8
Bonuses
1. This man created his most famous idea in the book Motivation and Personality. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this American psychologist, who elaborated on the ideas of Kurt Goldstein and expanded upon
his namesake idea in the book Toward a Psychology of Being.
ANSWER: Abraham Harold Maslow
[10] This idea of Maslow claims that physiological desires must be met before others are considered. It is
often presented as a triangle in diagrams.
ANSWER: Maslow's Hierarchy of Human Needs
[10] The top of the Hierarchy of Needs triangle is this need, which has to do with maximizing one's
potential.
ANSWER: self-actualization
023-09-6-08201

2. This poem describes an animal who "gives his harness bells a shake/to ask if there is some mistake." For
10 points each:
[10] Name this poem, that opens "whose woods these are I think I know" and closes with a repetition of the
line "and miles to go before I sleep."
ANSWER: "Stopping By Woods on a Snowy Evening" [do not accept "Stopping by the Woods on a
Snowy Evening"]
[10] "Stopping By Woods on a Snowy Evening" was written by this poet, whose collections include North of
Boston. He wrote about two roads diverging in a yellow wood in another poem.
ANSWER: Robert Lee Frost
[10] In a different Frost poem, the speaker sees these objects "bend to left and right" and describes "how
they seem not to break," finally noting that "one could do worse" than being a swinger of them.
ANSWER: birches
020-09-6-08202

3. This no-longer-existing state was originally settled by farmers leaving the Cape Colony. For 10 points
each:
[10] Identify this republic, a component of what became modern-day South Africa, which was settled by
descendants of Dutch colonists and named for the ruling house of the Netherlands.
ANSWER: Orange Free State [or Oranje-Vrijstaat]
[10] This war was sparked after Cecil Rhodes led a secret raid, intended to spark a revolt of uitlanders in
Johannesburg. The British forces resorted to scorched-earth tactics to conclude this war in 1902, and it was
named for a term referring to ethnic Dutch in South Africa.
ANSWER: Second Anglo-Boer War
[10] The first Boer War was an attempt to prevent British troops from annexing this region. Breaking its
control of Johannesburg had been the goal of the Jameson Raid.
ANSWER: the Transvaal
002-09-6-08203

Tournament-9 Round 8 Page 6 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

4. It states that voltage is the product of current and resistance. For 10 points each:
[10]Name this law of physics named for a German physicist.
ANSWER: Ohm's Law
[10] This kind of "bridge" is used to find the resistance of an unknown resistor given two resistors of known
resistance and a resistor of variable resistance.
ANSWER: Wheatstone Bridge
[10] This quantity, symbolized Z, is analogous to resistance in AC circuits. It is a complex number whose
real part is the resistance.
ANSWER: impedance
001-09-6-08204

5. This city’s opera house is called the “Garnier Palace,” and Rogers and Piano collaborated on one building
in this city. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this city, that is home to the Pompidou Center, which has plumbing pipes on the exterior.
ANSWER: Paris, France
[10] This church in Paris was designed by Paul Abadie. It is found on Montmartre, and it has a white
exterior, while its interior houses the one of the world’s largest mosaics.
ANSWER: Basilique du Sacre-Coeur [or Sacred Heart Basilica]
[10] This church in Paris lies on the Ile de la Cite, and flying buttresses support its apse. Its western facade is
dominated by two Gothic towers.
ANSWER: Notre Dame de Paris [or Our Lady of Paris]
027-09-6-08205

6. This man brought about the surrender of Confederate forces at Vicksburg on July 4th, 1863. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this man, who led Union forces to victory in the Civil War before becoming President after
Andrew Johnson.
ANSWER: Ulysses S. Grant [or Hiram Ulysses Grant]
[10] This panic during Grant's administration was caused by an attempt to corner the gold market by Jay
Gould and James Fisk.
ANSWER: Black Friday
[10] This scandal during Grant's time in office focused on a certain industry trying to avoid paying taxes. It
was eventually uncovered by Treasury Secretary Benjamin Bristow.
ANSWER: Whiskey Ring
023-09-6-08206

7. The center of this city includes two lakes, the Inner Alster and Outer Alser. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this busiest port of Germany.
ANSWER: Hamburg
[10] Hamburg is located on this river, which used to form part of the East/West German border. It is
connected by canal to the Oder River to the east and the Rhine to the west.
ANSWER: Elbe
[10] This capital of Saxony is also located on the Elbe. Much of this city was destroyed by Allied bombings
during World War II.
ANSWER: Dresden
030-09-6-08207

Tournament-9 Round 8 Page 7 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

8. One character in this novel is ordered to be killed in retribution for the murder of a Umuofian woman by
the Mbaino clan. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this work in which the protagonist wrestles "The Cat" and is shunned after beating his wife
during the Week of Peace.
ANSWER: Things Fall Apart
[10] This Nigerian author wrote No Longer at Ease as a sequel to his Things Fall Apart.
ANSWER: Albert Chinualumogu "Chinua" Achebe
[10] This playwright and countryman of Achebe was the first black African to win the Nobel Prize in
Literature. His works include plays, such as Death and the King's Horseman, and memoirs of his time as
political dissident in Nigeria, including The Man Died.
ANSWER: Wole Soyinka
002-09-6-08208

9. He noted that South America and Africa fit together like puzzle pieces and that both continents share
species. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this German who thus postulated his theory of continental drift.
ANSWER: Alfred Wegener
[10] Continental drift is driven by this process, the formation of new oceanic crust at mid-ocean ridges.
ANSWER: seafloor spreading
[10] Seafloor spreading was theorized by this American geologist and Rear Admiral in the United States
Navy.
ANSWER: Harry Hess
025-09-6-08209

10. He lost the Battle of Actium to Octavian. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this friend of Julius Caesar and lover of Cleopatra.
ANSWER: Mark Antony [or Marcus Antonius]
[10] This influential statesman was proscribed and killed by Antony and Octavian in 43 BCE. Earlier, he
defended Milo at trial.
ANSWER: Marcus Tullius Cicero [or Tully]
[10] Another big enemy of Cicero was this man, whose namesake conspiracy to gain the consulship was
thwarted by a series of four Cicero speeches.
ANSWER: Catiline [or Lucius Sergius Catilina]
015-09-6-08210

11. He is temporarily spared by a resemblance to another character's father, and his death causes his two
sons to flee to England and Ireland. For 10 points each:
[10] What literary king is murdered by the replacement, whom he chose to succeed the traitorous Thane of
Cawdor?
ANSWER: King Duncan
[10] Duncan is killed by this plotter and namesake of the play, whose devious wife later proclaims, "out,
damn spot!"
ANSWER: Macbeth
[10] This other victim of Macbeth is killed by soldiers rather than the new king himself. He returns as a
spirit to haunt the conscience of Macbeth.
ANSWER: Banquo
002-09-6-08211

Tournament-9 Round 8 Page 8 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

12. On the left side of this painting, one of the two altar boys gazes innocently up at a figure cloaked in
black. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this painting, which also includes two figures garbed in clothes of the French Revolution as well
as a crowd of mourners filed into an S-shaped line around a grave site.
ANSWER: Burial at Ornans [or the History of a Burial at Ornans]
[10] This nineteenth-century French realist painted The Sleepers and The Stone Breakers, as well as Burial
at Ornans.
ANSWER: Gustav Courbet
[10] This Spanish mannerist painted St. Stephen and St. Augustine attending the title event of his painting
The Burial of Count Orgaz.
ANSWER: El Greco [or Domenikos Theotokopolous]
053-09-6-08212

13. The sons of the Titan Iapetus (YAHP-uh-tuss) suffered at the hands of Zeus. For 10 points each:
[10] This strongest of the Titans was forced to hold up the sky.
ANSWER: Atlas
[10] This Titan gave all the best traits to animals, leaving nothing for man. He himself was given the gift of
Pandora, the world's first woman, who promptly released evils into the world.
ANSWER: Epimetheus
[10] This Titan was chained to a mountain in the Caucasus, where an eagle ate his liver every day until he
was freed by Heracles.
ANSWER: Prometheus
003-09-6-08213

14. Its namesake got G. H. Hardy to think about the frequency of alleles in a population. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this table-based tool for helping to understand the result of a genetic cross.
ANSWER: Punnett square
[10] In a typical dihybrid cross, this fraction of the child population will exhibit the recessive phenotype for
both alleles.
ANSWER: 1/16
[10] This term refers to the effect when genes have their expression altered by other genes and thus do not
always show Mendelian ratios. An example is retriever coat color.
ANSWER: epistasis [or epistatic]
001-09-6-08214

15. This document responds to accusations of wanting to destroy the family by stating that its opponents
“take the greatest pleasure in seducing each other's wives.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this document, originally issued in German.
ANSWER: The Communist Manifesto [or Manifesto of the Communist Party; or Manifest Der
Kommunistischen Partei]
[10] This co-author of the Communist Manifesto lends his name, along with Lenin, to the system of
orthodox Communist belief. He also wrote the lengthy political treatise Das Kapital.
ANSWER: Karl Heinrich Marx
[10] This collaborator on the Manifesto edited the last volumes of Das Kapital after Marx’s death. He wrote
works on his own such as The Condition of the Working Class in England.
ANSWER: Friedrich Engels
019-09-6-08215

Tournament-9 Round 8 Page 9 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

16. In this work, snare drums play an ostinato rhythm while a simple melody is repeated over and over again
with a continuous crescendo. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this repetitive orchestral work and ballet, written at the tempo of a Spanish dance.
ANSWER: Bolero
[10] Bolero is a work by this French Impressionist composer, who also wrote the difficult piano suite
Gaspard de la Nuit (NOO-ey) and the ballet Daphnis et Chloe.
ANSWER: Joseph-Maurice Ravel
[10] Gabriel Faure wrote one of these types of pieces modeled off a Spanish court dance; Ravel later wrote
another of these types of pieces "for a dead Princess."
ANSWER: pavane
036-09-6-08216

17. He played the roles of Llewellyn Moss in No Country for Old Men and Dan White in Milk. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this American actor, whose first role in film was as Brand Walsh in The Goonies.
ANSWER: Josh Brolin
[10] Brolin played the title role in this 2008 biopic of the forty-third President of the United States.
ANSWER: W.
[10] W. was directed by this auteur behind Natural Born Killers and World Trade Center. His other
Presidential films include 1991's JFK.
ANSWER: Oliver Stone
025-09-6-08217

18. The Nazis removed this man from his position as mayor of Cologne in 1933. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this man who, following World War II, founded the Christian Democratic Union and was elected
chancellor of West Germany in 1949.
ANSWER: Konrad Adenauer
[10] A member of the Social Democratic Party, this later West German chancellor initiated the policy of
Ostpolitik towards East Germany and concluded a peace treaty with the east in 1972.
ANSWER: Willy Brandt [or Karl Herbert Frahm]
[10] In 1961, East German leader Walter Ulbricht ordered the start of construction on this edifice to stem the
tide of defections to the West.
ANSWER: the Berlin Wall
030-09-6-08218

19. This astronomer classified regular galaxies into elliptical, spiral, and lenticular types in his tuning-fork
sequence. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this astronomer who discovered a direct relationship between a galaxy's redshift and its velocity,
providing empirical support that the universe is expanding.
ANSWER: Edwin Hubble
[10] By discovering that these stars exist in the Andromeda galaxy, Hubble disproved the idea that the
universe only consisted of the Milky Way. Henrietta Leavitt's observations of the period-luminosity relation
in these stars led them to be used to measure cosmic distances.
ANSWER: Cepheid variables
[10] Hubble's evidence of an expanding universe was predicted by this scientist's theory of general relativity,
although he added a cosmological constant to his equations because of his belief in a static universe.
ANSWER: Albert Einstein
004-09-6-08219

Tournament-9 Round 8 Page 10 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

20. The title figure's mother flees to America after being released from Newgate Prison. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this novel, in which an unnamed protagonist marries a banker and a secretly bankrupt Catholic,
before returning to Newgate after being caught stealing.
ANSWER: The Fortunes and Misfortunes of the Famous Moll Flanders, Etc. Who Was Born In Newgate,
and During a Life of Continu'd Variety For Threescore Years, Besides Her Childhood, Was Twelve Year a
Whore, Five Times a Wife, Whereof Once To Her Own Brother, Twelve Year a Thief, Eight Year a
Transported Felon In Virginia, At Last Grew Rich, Liv'd Honest, and Died a Penitent, Written from her own
Memorandums
[10] This author of Moll Flanders also wrote Robinson Crusoe.
ANSWER: Daniel Defoe
[10] This other Defoe work tells a semi-fictionalized account of life in London during the titular disaster.
ANSWER: Journal of the Plague Year
002-09-6-08220

21. Rules governing them are named for Zaitsev and Markovnikov. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these hydrocarbons which possess at least one carbon-carbon double bond and have general
formula CnH2n, also known as olefins.
ANSWER: alkenes
[10] The simplest alkene is this one, which is responsible for the ripening of fruit.
ANSWER: ethylene [or C2H4]
[10] The Wittig reaction can synthesize alkenes from aldehydes or these compounds with carbonyl groups
bonded to two other carbon atoms, an example of which is acetone.
ANSWER: ketones
025-09-6-08221

22. This document was drawn up to protest taxes imposed after the Battle of Bouvines. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this document that English barons forced King John to sign in 1215, which guaranteed liberties
such as due process.
ANSWER: the Magna Carta
[10] The Magna Carta also guaranteed a form of this legal right, which allows a citizen to demand sufficient
cause for being placed in custody.
ANSWER: writ of habeas corpus
[10] King John refused to appoint this cardinal as Archbishop of Canterbury, causing Pope Innocent III to
place England under an interdict.
ANSWER: Stephen Langton
004-09-6-08222

Tournament-9 Round 8 Page 11 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

