Tournament-8
Round 4
Tossups
1. This artist created a wood sculpture of a withered, aged Mary Magdalene, and a slim figure holds a
narrow shield with a cross on it in one of his sculptures for Orsanmichele, a depiction of St. George.
This artist supposedly ordered his marble to "speak, damn you, speak!" while creating a statue of the
bald prophet Habbakuk. This sculptor of an equestrian statue of (*) Gattamelata also sculpted the first
freestanding nude since antiquity, an effeminate boy with one foot on the severed head of Goliath. For 10
points, name Italian Renaissance sculptor of a bronze David.
ANSWER: Donatello [or Donato di Niccolò di Betto Bardi]
032-09-4-04102

2. This man married his second wife in part because of the Treaty of Blois, in which this monarch
received Germaine of Foix from Louis XII of France. One of his children married Philip the
Handsome and this man signed the treaty of Westminster with Henry VIII. He issued the Alhambra
Decree and participated in a successful campaign against the (*) moors of Granada. For ten points, name
this father of Joanna the Mad, a Spanish monarch who married Isabella of Castille and funded Christopher
Columbus's expedition.
ANSWER: Ferdinand II of Aragon [or Ferdinand II; or Ferdinand the Catholic; prompt on Ferdinand]
033-09-4-04103

3. Critic Louis Leroy claimed that "Wallpaper in its embryonic state is more finished" than one of this
man's paintings. He used the view from his window in St. Thomas' Hospital to paint the Houses of
Parliament and his more natural series include Poplars(*) and Haystacks. Other paintings he completed
after moving to Giverny include a series depicting Rouen Cathedral. He also painted the water lilies in his
garden over two hundred and fifty times and his depiction of the Le Havre harbor gave his movement its
name. For 10 points name this French painter of Impression, Sunrise.
ANSWER: Claude Monet
015-09-4-04104

4. This author concluded that the "self-same Power that brought me there brought you" in his poem
subtitled "On Being Asked, Whence Is the Flower," "The Rhodora." This author noted that on bare
grounds, his "mean egotism vanishes" and he becomes "part or particle of God" in an essay
comparing himself to a "transparent (*) eyeball." He advocated the intellectual independence of his
country in his Harvard lecture "The American Scholar." For 10 points, name this Transcendentalist
predecessor of Thoreau whose essays include "Nature" and "Self-Reliance."
ANSWER: Ralph Waldo Emerson
034-09-4-04105

5. One person who has declared intent to run for this office is currently being sued by Don Henley for
writing two parodies of Eagles songs, respectively directed at Barack Obama and a current occupant
of this office. In addition to Chuck DeVore, other possible Republican nominees for this office include
radio host Larry Elder and former (*) Hewlett-Packard CEO Carly Fiorina. Of the two Democratic
women who hold this office, one will be facing a Republican opponent in 2010. For 10 points, name this
elected position currently held by Barbara Boxer and Dianne Feinstein.
ANSWER: United States Senator from California [accept obvious equivalents; prompt on United States
Senator]
019-09-4-04106

Tournament-8 Round 4 Page 1 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. This quantity can be calculated using the Kapustinskii equation, and a constant proportional to this
quantity can be calculated using the Ewald method and is named for Madelung. Another method for
finding it involves the reciprocal of an exponent that falls between 5 and 12 and is named for (*) Born
and Lande. This quantity can be determined experimentally using a method that atomizes a substance to
measure enthalpy, the Born-Haber cycle. For 10 points, name this quantity denoting the strength of bonds in
an ionic solid, which is also the amount of energy needed to separate the molecules of a crystal into an ionic
gas.
ANSWER: lattice energy [or lattice enthalpy]
032-09-4-04107

7. He ceded Amphipolis to Athens as preparation for his invasion of Paeonia, where he defeated an
Illyrian invasion of his homeland. Isocrates worked to convince this man to lead a Greek invasion of
Persia, and he was made president of the Thessalian League. This man was killed by his lover
Pausanias. This commander won a key victory when his son destroyed the (*) Sacred Band at the battle
of Chaeronea, and Demosthenes gave a series of speeches warning about his power. For 10 points, name this
Macedonian king and father of Alexander the Great.
ANSWER: Philip II of Macedon [or Philip of Macedon]
027-09-4-04108

8. Infants and some adults with this disorder exhibit light-colored clumps of connective tissue on the
outside of the iris called Brushfield spots. Some studies have shown that increased expression of
certain tumor suppressor genes in people with this disorder leads to resistance to most kinds of
cancer. Sufferers of this disorder often have a single crease across the palm, defects in the septum
between the heart ventricles, (*) almond-shaped eyes due to epicanthic folds, and moderate to severe
mental retardation. For 10 points, name this disorder caused by a trisomy of chromosome 21.
ANSWER: Down syndrome [or trisomy 21 until mention]
032-09-4-04109

9. This thinker later rejected his theory that demand would remain the same if a government finances
its spending through debt or taxes in his namesake equivalence. He argued in favor of a metal-based
currency in The High Price of Bullion and claimed that elevated rent was one of the many negative
effects of (*) Corn Laws. He also declared that trade was more beneficial than developing all goods and
services within an economy in Principles of Political Economy and Taxation. For 10 points, name this
English formulator of the law of comparative advantage who also developed the iron law of wages.
ANSWER: David Ricardo
005-09-4-04110

10. This statement does not hold if velocity at time zero is known and the time of interest is the past. It
is illustrated by a thought experiment involving a gamma-ray microscope, in which a photon and
electron collide. A corollary to this statement involves (*) energy and time, and one side of this inequality
is h bar over two. For 10 points, give this statement that there is a minimum product of the inaccuracies of
measuring a particle's momentum and position, which is named after a German physicist.
ANSWER: Heisenberg uncertainty principle [or Heisenberg uncertainty principle; or Heisenberg
indeterminacy principle; or Heisenberg uncertainty relations]
003-09-4-04111

Tournament-8 Round 4 Page 2 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

11. One of this thinker's works argues that a private language is not possible using a thought
experiment about a beetle in a box. That work by this philosopher asserts that both games and
languages have a family resemblance. Besides writing Philosophical (*) Investigations, he inspired the
Vienna Circle with a short work of highly subdivided propositions numbered one to seven, concluding that
"whereof one cannot speak, one must pass over in silence." For 10 points, name this German philosopher of
Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus.
ANSWER: Ludwig Josef Johann Wittgenstein
022-09-4-04112

12. One character in this poem "singeth loudly his godly hymns / That he makes in the wood," and
that hermit, along with a pilot and his boy, saves the title character. This poem's title character sees
"Four times fifty living men...dropped down one by one" after watching a dice game played between
Death and Life-in-Death. This poem opens with a story being told to a (*) Wedding Guest, and includes
the line "Water, water, every where / Nor any drop to drink." For 10 points, name this poem about the
misfortunes of a sailor who shot an albatross, written by Samuel Taylor Coleridge.
ANSWER: "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
023-09-4-04113

13. The duplication of Hox genes may explain a notable event during this time period, whose major
landmasses include Laurentia, Baltica, and Gondwona. Archaeocyathids both appeared and went
extinct during this period, and the Ediacara organisms appear to have gone extinct early in this first
period of the (*) Phanerozoic Eon. The fossil record from it is dominated by trilobites, and this period of the
Paleozoic Era was followed by the Ordovician Period. For 10 points, name this geological period which saw
the proliferation of many new species of life, an event known as its namesake "explosion."
ANSWER: Cambrian Period
032-09-4-04114

14. This author criticized the Avignon papacy in the collection Liber sine nomine, which he withheld
from his collection of letters to friends, Epistolae Familiaris. He wrote a series of biographies in Latin
called On Illustrious Men and depicted the Battle of Zama and Hannibal's invasion of Italy in his epic
poem about Scipio Africanus, (*) Africa. A poetic form named for this man consists of an octave followed
by a sestet. For 10 points, identify this Italian namesake of a type of sonnet, whose Canzoniere
("can-zo-NYEH-ray") expresses his love for Laura.
ANSWER: Petrarch [or Francesco Petrarca]
029-09-4-04115

15. One episode of this show, features a pimp named Alabaster Jones voiced by Snoop Dogg. This
television show features the Nine Rivers country club, which only admits Asians. This series originally
featured Heimlich County School District, specifically centering on Tom Landry Middle School. (*)
Bazooms is an analogue to Hooters on this series, and one character who drinks Alamo Beer and drives the
Bugabago uses the alias Rusty Shackleford, Dale Gribble created by Mike Judge and Greg Daniels. For 10
points, name this animated TV series, recently terminated by Fox, centering on an Arlen, Texas family.
ANSWER: King of the Hill
022-09-4-04116

Tournament-8 Round 4 Page 3 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

16. One character created by this author obtains his nickname because he prefers to staple people's
hands with a Samsonite stapler. This author examined the title author's "fixation on blackness" and
belief that black men embodied "blind, furious, unreasoning rage" in the essay "An Image of Africa:
Racism in Conrad's Heart of Darkness." This author of (*) Anthills of the Savannah wrote a novel whose
main character beats Nwoye, helps kill Ikemefuna, and eventually hangs himself after the arrival of
European missionaries to Umuofia. For 10 points, name this Nigerian author of a book about Okonkwo,
Things Fall Apart.
ANSWER: Chinua Achebe
032-09-4-04117

17. This city includes districts such as Kampong Baharu and Kenney Hill, and the Gombak River
meets another river in this city. The Bukit Nanas, or Pineapple Hill, is a forest reserve located in this
city, and this city's Moorish-style buildings include the Sultan Abdul Samad Building.(*) A city to this
city's south named Putrajaya is the administrative center of this city's country, and this city's ocean port is
Port Kelang. For 10 points, name this home of the Petronas Towers, the capital of Malaysia.
ANSWER: Kuala Lumpur
030-09-4-04118

18. This conflict was ended by the Treaty of Casco. Benjamin Church and Josiah Winslow were
victorious in this conflict's most decisive battle, which was known simply as the Great Swamp Fight.
An account of this war was written by (*) Mary Rowlandson while in captivity. The two main opponents
in it had earlier been allies under Massasoit, the sachem of the Wampanoag tribe. For 10 points, name this
conflict between Native Americans and the Plymouth Colony, usually called after the Wampanoag chief's
anglicized name.
ANSWER: King Philip's War [or Metacomet's War]
035-09-4-04119

19. The Homestake experiment confirmed that this object emits neutrinos. The SOHO mission was
launched to observe this object, whose magnetic field flips every eleven years. This object emits
spicules from its chromosphere and mass ejections of plasma from its (*) corona. Its photosphere
contains areas of low temperature that appear dark, its namesake "spots." For 10 points, name this star which
contains ninety-nine percent of the mass of the solar system.
ANSWER: the sun [or Sol]
004-09-4-04120

20. The sixteen who died in this event were placed eight to a sarcophagus, one in each of two Honor
Temples. The vanguard in this event included Adolf Lenk and Kurt Neubauer. Eugen von Knilling
declared a state of emergency in the days leading up to this event, leading to the appointment of three
officials to keep order. Those three were Hans Ritter von Seisser, Otto von Lossow, and Gustav von
Kahr, whose speech was interrupted by six hundred (*) SA men. For 10 points, name this attempted
coup-d'etat, in which Hitler and Ludendorff attempted to seize power in Munich.
ANSWER: Beer Hall Putsch [or the Munich Putsch; or the Hitlerputsch; or the
Hitler-Ludendorff-Putsch; do not accept the Kapp Putsch]
022-09-4-04121

Tournament-8 Round 4 Page 4 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

21. One of this author's title characters fears that a guard will discover a hidden piece of steel in his
mitten. This author wrote novels about the mathematician Gleb Nerzhin and Oleg Kostoglotov, who is
confined in the title hospital. This author of The First Circle and (*) Cancer Ward created a character
with the last name Shukov who works for group 104, and wrote a book exposing the conditions of the
Russian prison camps. For 10 points, name this Russian author of The Gulag Archipelago and One Day in
the Life of Ivan Denisovich.
ANSWER: Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn
025-09-4-04122

Tournament-8 Round 4 Page 5 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

Tournament-8
Round 4
Bonuses
1. This figure defeated the demon Humbaba and built the walls surrounding Uruk. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this mythical Sumerian part-God hero whose namesake epic chronicles his adventures with his
hairy half-wild friend Enkidu
ANSWER: Gilgamesh
[10] Gilgamesh rejected the affections of this goddess of fertility and sex and lover of Tammuz who was
cognate to the Semitic Astarte.
ANSWER: Ishtar [or Inanna]
[10] Ishtar was also the goddess of this entity, represented by Selene in Greek mythology.
ANSWER: the moon
005-09-4-04201

2. This term refers to the angular momentum possessed by a subatomic particle. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this quantity.
ANSWER: spin
[10] Materials that exhibit this form of magnetism do so because of the spin of unpaired electrons in their
outer orbitals.
ANSWER: paramagnetism [or other word forms]
[10] Paramagnetism occurs above the Neel point in materials that normally exhibit this form of magnetism
in which neighboring electron spins align in opposite directions.
ANSWER: antiferromagnetism [or other word forms]
032-09-4-04202

3. This author's plays include Aria da Capo. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this poet of "Renascence," who included her poem beginning "my candle burns at both ends,"
"First Fig," in her collection A Few Figs from Thistles.
ANSWER: Edna St. Vincent Millay
[10] Millay asks that "all who prate of Beauty hold their peace" in a poem about this geometer, who "alone
has looked on Beauty bare."
ANSWER: Euclid
[10] Millay worked with George Dillon to translate this French poet's collection The Flowers of Evil into
English.
ANSWER: Charles Baudelaire
032-09-4-04203

4. Name these events related to the American labor movement, for 10 points each.
[10] This Chicago massacre occurred after a bomb was thrown at police during a rally by striking employees
of the McCormick Harvesting Machine Company.
ANSWER: Haymarket Square Riot
[10] Pinkerton guards were sent by Henry Clay Frick to break up this 1892 strike at a namesake
Pennsylvania steel mill.
ANSWER: Homestead Strike
[10] This 1894 strike began in the namesake railway car company's factory town, but quickly spread across
the national rail system.
ANSWER: Pullman Strike
038-09-4-04204

Tournament-8 Round 4 Page 6 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

5. His eighth symphony got its nickname from the large number of musicians required to perform it. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this Austrian composer of a "Resurrection" symphony and the aforementioned "Symphony of a
Thousand."
ANSWER: Gustav Mahler
[10] This other Mahler symphony's third movement funeral march incorporates the children's tune "Frere
Jacques." It originally consisted of five movements, but Mahler dropped the "Blumine" section.
ANSWER: "Titan" symphony [or Symphony No. 1 in D major]
[10] Mahler used poems by Li Po for this piece for chorus and orchestra with movements like "Of Youth"
and "The Farewell."
ANSWER: Song of the Earth [or Das Lied von der Erde]
032-09-4-04205

6. During this woman’s youth, Axel Oxenstierna was her chancellor, and she succeeded her father upon his
death at Lutzen. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Queen who was the daughter of Gustavus Adolphus, and abdicated before converting to
Catholicism. She was called the “Minerva of the North.”
ANSWER: Queen Christina
[10] Queen Christina ruled over this country, which was later ruled by the Bernadotte family from
Stockholm.
ANSWER: Sweden
[10] This man worked with the Duke di Modena to make Christina the queen of Naples. He was made a
regent by Anne of Austria.
ANSWER: Jules, Cardinal Mazarin [or Giulio Raimondo Mazzarino; or Giulio Raimondo Mazarini]
027-09-4-04206

7. This man popularized the terms "introvert" and "extrovert" and held that events were underpinned by not
by causal relations but by"synchronicity". For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Swiss psychologist who broke with his teacher, Freud, who theorized the existence of a
collective unconsciousness.
ANSWER: Carl Gustav Jung
[10] Jung's psychology primarily focused on these innate dispositions which form the psyche. Examples
include the shadow, the animus, and the anima.
ANSWER: archetypes
[10] Jung developed his idea of the unconscious partially from this work of Freud that introduces the
Oedipus complex and claims that the titular phenomena are a form of wish fulfillment.
ANSWER: The Interpretation of Dreams [or Die Traumdeutung]
005-09-4-04207

Tournament-8 Round 4 Page 7 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

8. The main character of this novel is kidnapped from Judge Miller’s comfortable estate in California. For
10 points each:
[10] Name this novel in which Buck becomes the leader of a sled team after defeating Spitz, but nearly dies
upon being mistreated by Hal, Charles, and Mercedes.
ANSWER: The Call of the Wild
[10] This American author set the majority of his novels, including The Call of the Wild and White Fang, in
the Yukon.
ANSWER: Jack London
[10] The protagonist of this short story by London is traveling by himself when he falls through snow,
causing his matches to freeze. He dies of cold after failing to kill his dog for warmth.
ANSWER: "To Build a Fire"
034-09-4-04208

9. This recent 3-D movie centers on Nick O'Bannon and his friends, all of whom survived what was meant
to have been their deaths. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this David R. Ellis movie, continuing a series of films begun by James Wong.
ANSWER: The Final Destination [or Final Destination 4]
[10] The original Final Destination features teenagers who don't die in this sort of event, which is also
central to Castaway.
ANSWER: plane crash [accept equivalents]
[10] David R. Ellis directed this 2006 movie, whose premise involves Sean Jones being transported from
Honolulu to Los Angeles to testify against the gangster Eddie Kim.
ANSWER: Snakes on a Plane
022-09-4-04209

10. Name these parts of the brainstem, for 10 points each.
[10] This part of the brainstem is responsible for regulating respiration, the beating of the heart, vomiting,
and other involuntary functions.
ANSWER: medulla oblongata
[10] This structure, located above the medulla on the upper part of the brainstem, is responsible for relaying
sensory information between the cerebellum and cerebrum.
ANSWER: pons
[10] The nucleus ambiguus gives rise to one branch of this longest cranial nerve, which controls heart rate
and is the only one to innervate areas below the head.
ANSWER: vagus nerve [or cranial nerve X (10)]
021-09-4-04210

11. In 2005, he defeated David Davis to succeed Michael Howard as party leader. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this leader of the Conservative Party, who is the most likely successor to Gordon Brown as Prime
Minister of the U.K.
ANSWER: David Cameron
[10] Brown's other political opponents include this Nick Clegg-led party, which holds sixty-three seats in
Parliament.
ANSWER: LDP [or Liberal Democrats; or Liberal Democratic Party; or Libdems; or Liberals]
[10] Newspapers reported a breakdown in UK-US relations following the release of A.A. Megrahi, the
accused bomber of a Pan Am flight that exploded over this Scottish city in 1988.
ANSWER: Lockerbie
019-09-4-04211

Tournament-8 Round 4 Page 8 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

12. These compounds are created in reactions named for Yamaguchi and Fischer, and they react in the
Claisen condensation. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this fragrant class of compounds that includes the common solvent ethyl acetate.
ANSWER: ester
[10] Esters may be thought of as an oxygen atom bonded to an alkyl group and one of this kind of group.
One of the Friedel-Crafts reactions adds this group to aryl compounds.
ANSWER: acyl [or alkanoyl]
[10] The simplest aryl compound is this simplest aromatic hydrocarbon with formula C6H6.
ANSWER: benzene
022-09-4-04212

13. It was originally meant to depict Dante. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this bronze sculpture of a pensive nude holding his arm to his chin.
ANSWER: The Thinker
[10] This French sculptor created The Thinker for his depiction of the Gates of Hell. He sculpted a group of
defeated Frenchmen in The Burghers of Calais.
ANSWER: Auguste Rodin
[10] This Rodin sculpture was also inspired by the Divine Comedy. It depicts the embrace of Paolo and
Francesca.
ANSWER: The Kiss
015-09-4-04213

14. This treaty led to the May Fourth Movement in China. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this 1919 treaty that forced enormous reparations on the losers of World War I.
ANSWER: Treaty of Versailles
[10] This 1923 World War I treaty named for a Swiss city superseded the Treaty of Sevres. It united
Anatolia and Eastern Thrace under the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
ANSWER: Treaty of Lausanne
[10] The Grand National Assembly of Turkey was led by this man, who served in the Gallipoli Campaign
and spearheaded the founding of a secular Turkish state.
ANSWER: Mustafa Kemal Ataturk
038-09-4-04214

15. This figure miraculously sustained a widow's small supply of flour and oil and was taken up into heaven
in a chariot of fire. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this major Hebrew prophet who rained fire from heaven down on Azariah and was succeeded by
Elisha.
ANSWER: Elijah [or Elias or Eliyahu or Ilyas]
[10] Elijah's major opponent was this king of Israel and ally of Jehosephat who killed Naboth in order to
take his vineyards.
ANSWER: King Ahab [or Ach'av]
[10] Elijah also preached against this wife of Ahab and challenged 450 of her priests of Ba'al to prove Ba'al's
power. After Ahab's death, she ruled through her son Ahaziah.
ANSWER: Queen Jezebel [or Izevel]
005-09-4-04215

Tournament-8 Round 4 Page 9 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

16. One character in this play is brought to court for refusing to give false praise to a horrible poem written
by Oronte. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this play about the extremely frank title character, Alceste.
ANSWER: The Misanthrope [or Le Misanthrope]
[10] This French playwright of The Misanthrope also wrote a play about a man who pretends to be deeply
spiritual but instead attempts to manipulate Orgon and strip him of his wealth, Tartuffe.
ANSWER: Moliere [or Jean-Baptiste Poquelin]
[10] In this other Moliere play, the social-climbing title character allows his daughter to marry Cleonte only
after he pretends to be a Turkish prince.
ANSWER: The Bourgeois Gentleman [or Le Bourgeois gentilhomme]
032-09-4-04216

17. Name these pieces of laboratory equipment, for 10 points each.
[10] This device provides a stream of natural gas and an adjustable vent to admit air at the base; it is named
for a chemist who often worked closely with Kirchhoff.
ANSWER: Bunsen burner
[10] These flat-based pieces of glassware taper to a relatively narrow neck
ANSWER: Erlenmeyer flask
[10] This other named kind of flask has a round bottom and is designed for even heating. They have a longer
neck than round-bottom flasks and lack the ground glass joint.
ANSWER: Florence flask
022-09-4-04217

18. Its second stanza begins "Gas! Gas! Quick, boys" and describes the effects of a phosgene gas attack
during World War I. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this poem that takes its title and last two lines from a Horatian ode. It criticizes the "old lie" that
"it is sweet and beautiful to die for one's country."
ANSWER: "Dulce et Decorum Est"
[10] This British poet, who died in combat during World War I, penned "Dulce et Decorum Est," as well as
"Anthem for Doomed Youth."
ANSWER: Wilfred Owen
[10] This more idealistic war poet's works include "A Channel Passage" and "The Soldier," part of his poetry
sequence 1914.
ANSWER: Rupert Brooke
032-09-4-04218

19. For 10 points each, name these photographers.
[10] This American photographer's pictures of the West include Moonrise, Hernandez, New Mexico. He also
photographed many national parks, especially Yosemite.
ANSWER: Ansel Adams
[10] Along with his associates Alexander Gardner, George Barnard, and Timothy O'Sullivan, this
photographer produced iconic images of the American Civil War.
ANSWER: Matthew Brady
[10] While working for the Farm Security Administration during the Great Depression, this photographer
captured images of rural poverty such as Migrant Mother.
ANSWER: Dorothea Lange
004-09-4-04219

Tournament-8 Round 4 Page 10 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

20. Following his death, this man's wife, Jiang Qing, was arrested as one of the Gang of Four. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this founder of the People's Republic of China, who oversaw the Great Leap Forward and led the
Red Army on the Long March.
ANSWER: Mao Zedong [or Mao Tse-Tung]
[10] Communist theoretician Liu Shaoqi was one of the more prominent victims of this movement begun by
Mao in 1966. It saw student Red Guard units terrorize intellectuals and local communist party leaders.
ANSWER: The Great Proletarian Cultural Revolution [or Wuchanjieji Wenhua Dageming; or Wu-ch'an
Chieh-chi Wen hua Ta Ke-ming]
[10] Mao initiated this campaign in 1956 to ease restrictions on freedom of speech. Unanticipated criticism
of the government prompted a crackdown on dissidents who emerged during this movement.
ANSWER: Hundred Flowers Campaign
030-09-4-04220

21. Raymond Rambert is able to reunite with his wife by the end of this novel, but Dr. Rieux is less
fortunate. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this novel about an epidemic in Oran, Algeria.
ANSWER: The Plague [or La Peste]
[10] This French author of The Plague wrote about Meursault, who shoots an Arab on a beach for no good
reason, in The Stranger.
ANSWER: Albert Camus
[10] Camus expressed his absurdist philosophy in this work, which likens the endless torture of a certain
mythological character to the futile struggle towards finding meaning in life.
ANSWER: The Myth of Sisyphus [or Le Mythe de Sisyphe]
034-09-4-04221

Tournament-8 Round 4 Page 11 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

