Tournament-8
Round 15
Tossups
1. A drop in this quantity in the universe allowed for the ability to form hydrogen atoms. The value
for this quantity known as the lambda point separates helium I from the superfluid helium II. This
quantity is related to a particle's speed by the (*) Maxwell-Boltzmann distribution, and is measured by
the Rankine scale. Gay-Lussac's Law states that pressure is directly proportional to it. For 10 points, name
this quantity measured by the Kelvin and Fahrenheit scales.
ANSWER: temperature
020-09-4-15102

2. Citizens of this state freed Anthony Burns in open defiance of the Fugitive Slave Act. Horace Mann
reformed the public schools of this state, which was the site of the Utopian community Brook Farm.
The American industrial revolution was sparked by textile mills built in this state's city of (*) Lowell.
The Missouri Compromise separated Maine from this state, which was represented by Senators Charles
Sumner and Daniel Webster. For 10 points, name this state where the American Revolution began with
battles at Lexington and Concord.
ANSWER: Massachusetts
004-09-4-15103

3. The primitive kidney produces retinoic acid, which stimulates this process in females and
suppresses it in males. A prolonged resting phase during this process is known as the dictyotene stage,
and the Edward and Klinefelter syndromes result from (*) nondisjunction during it. This process results
in oogenesis and spermatogenesis, and this process as a whole evolved from the binary fission of
prokaryotes. Resulting in the creation of four haploid daughter cells, for 10 points, name this type of cell
division whose second stage is very similar to mitosis.
ANSWER: meiosis
020-09-4-15104

4. In one poem by this author, the narrator concludes "speak through my words and my blood" after
"scal[ing] the ladder of the earth" to reach the title location. This poet concluded a set of poems with
one that begins "Tonight I can write the saddest lines." This author wrote poems "to Conger
Chowder" and "to an Artichoke" as part of his Elemental Odes, and included "The Heights of
Macchu Picchu" in his collection (*) Canto general. For 10 points, name this Chilean poet of Twenty Love
Poems and a Song of Despair.
ANSWER: Pablo Neruda [or Neftalí Ricardo Reyes Basoalto]
023-09-4-15105

5. Some of this thinker's lesser known works include "What Are Poets For?" and "The Origin of the
Work of Art." He succeeded Edmund Husserl as the chair of philosophy at Freiburg University,
where he delivered the speech "What is Metaphysics?" His key idea consists of a person's
existentiality, fallenness and thrownness, and is called (*) dasein. For 10 points, name this
Nazi-sympathizing German philosopher who never finished his magnum opus Being and Time.
ANSWER: Martin Heidegger
050-09-4-15106

Tournament-8 Round 15 Page 1 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. This leader criticized another country's military in his Discord Among the Enemy, while this man
criticized his own country's lack of a mobile, professional army in his The Army of the Future. This
successor of René Coty opposed Britain's entry into the European Economic Community, and
problems in (*) Algeria brought this man to power a second time with the creation of the Fifth Republic.
For 10 points, name this man who worked against the Vichy Regime as leader of the Free French during
World War II.
ANSWER: Charles André Joseph Marie de Gaulle
023-09-4-15107

7. Alexander Borodin’s second work of this type has a third movement “Nocturne” and is in D major.
Beethoven’s Grosse Fugue was written for this ensemble. One of these by the man who is credited
with inventing their form includes the melody of “Deutschland Uber Alles” and is called the
“Emperor.” Franz Schubert wrote one that has a movement of variations on his song (*) “Death and
the Maiden.” The four movement works named for these ensembles were written with lots of plucking by
Bartok, and Haydn “fathered” them. For 10 points, name this ensemble of a cello, a viola, and two violins.
ANSWER: string quartet
027-09-4-15108

8. This equation is applied to find delta-P in one derivation of the Kutta-Joukowski theorem. A limited
derivation of this statement can be found by integrating Euler's equation, and a special version of this
statement manifests itself in the Venturi effect. Pitot tubes use this principle to measure (*) velocity. It
states that the conservation of energy mandates that the sum of kinetic energy density, potential energy
density, and pressure is a constant along a streamline, under a steady flow with incompressible fluids. For 10
points, name this principle named for a Swiss scientist, which helps explain how an airfoil creates lift.
ANSWER: Bernoulli's principle
026-09-4-15109

9. One of Goya's Black Paintings depicts one of these creatures drowning in sand. One of them is
present at the titular event in Courbet's Burial at Ornans, and one stands on the bank of a river in
Constable's The Hay Wain. One representing fidelity appears at the bottom of The (*) Arnolfini
Wedding, and another lies at the foot of a bed in Venus of Urbino. For 10 points, name these creatures who,
in a series by C.M. Coolidge, are depicted playing poker.
ANSWER: dogs [or clear-knowledge equivalents]
024-09-4-15110

10. J.K. Paasikivi and Urho Kekkonen developed this nation's neutral stance during the Cold War.
The Lapua Movement pushed for a coup following this nation's Civil War, which was won by the
Whites. This nation violated the democratic peace theory in the (*) Continuation War, which followed a
war in which this nation used the motti strategy to win the Battle of Suomussalmi. Site of fighting in the
Ladoga Karelia and the Mannerheim Line, for 10 points, name this Scandinavian country invaded by the
Soviet Union in the Winter War.
ANSWER: Finland [or Suomi]
036-09-4-15111

Tournament-8 Round 15 Page 2 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

11. The speaker of one poem by this author fears "Eyes I dare not meet in dreams," which supposedly
do not appear "in death's dream kingdom." This poet wrote "in the beginning is my end" in a poem
divided into sections such as "The Dry Salvages" and "Burnt Norton." The narrator of another poem
by this author wonders (*) "Do I dare / disturb the universe?" This author wrote "this is the way the world
ends / not with a bang, but a whimper" in his poem "The Hollow Men." For 10 points, name this
American-born British poet of "The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock" and "The Waste Land."
ANSWER: Thomas Stearns Eliot
002-09-4-15112

12. Although it is not the cochlea, this structure has some neuronal cells linked by ribbon synapses.
Blood flow in this structure's capillaries can be measured using blue field entoptoscopy to test for
Scheerer's phenomenon. The inner and outer plexiform layers are part of this structure, which
contains a red dot in Tay-Sachs patients and is subdivided into the (*) fovea and macula. At the point
where the optic nerve exits this structure, a blind spot occurs. For 10 points, name this light-sensitive tissue
in the inner surface of the eye, which contains photoreceptors like rods and cones.
ANSWER: retina
020-09-4-15113

13. In this country, the Dutch native Henrik Verwoerd was assassinated by Dimitri Tsafendas, and
members of the “Spear of the Nation” were charged with conspiracy in the Rivonia Trials. Steve Biko
was killed by police in this country, and a protest by people who wanted to be taught in English led to
police violence in (*) Soweto. The treaty of Vereeniging ended the independence of the Orange Free State
and the Transvaal in this modern day country, which had been settled by Boers who spoke Afrikaans. For 10
points, name this country that ended apartheid soon before Nelson Mandela became its first black president.
ANSWER: Republic of South Africa
027-09-4-15114

14. This law was first derived by Benoit Clapeyron, and its namesake constant is equal to the
Boltzmann constant multiplied by Avogadro's number, which equals approximately 8.3 joules per
mole Kelvin. A modification of this law takes into account attractive forces and particle volume and is
named for (*) van der Waals. It can be thought of as a combination of Avogadro's, Boyle's, and Charles's
laws. For 10 points, name this equation of state approximating behavior of its namesake state of matter,
often represented as PV equals nRT.
ANSWER: ideal gas law
025-09-4-15115

15. This composer's piano pieces include three "Venetian boat songs," "Spinning Song," and "Spring
Song." This composer's fourth symphony ends with a lively saltarello, and his short piano pieces are
collected in his Songs Without Words. This composer wrote a Bergomask representing the dance of (*)
Nick Bottom and a famous Wedding March based on a Shakespeare play set in the forest of Arden. For 10
points, name this nineteenth century German composer of the "Italian" symphony and incidental music to A
Midsummer Night's Dream.
ANSWER: Felix Mendelssohn
004-09-4-15116

Tournament-8 Round 15 Page 3 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

16. In one play by this author, "Schoolboy" Barton records "That's All Right" and dumps Vera, but
is arrested when walking from his mother's funeral. This author wrote a play about Boy Willie, who
wants to sell an instrument that Berniece insists on keeping. This author of Two Trains Running and
(*) Seven Guitars wrote a play that includes the never-seen Alberta, who has an affair with the man married
to Rose, garbageman Troy Maxson. For 10 points, name this author of the "Pittsburgh Cycle," which
includes The Piano Lesson and Fences.
ANSWER: August Wilson
020-09-4-15117

17. One of this god's sons pursued the nymph Syrinx, causing her to turn into reed pipes. This god
killed the giant Argos in order to allow Zeus to abduct Io, and gave the herb moly to Odysseus to help
him defeat Circe. This father of Priapus and (*) Pan was the god of trade and thieves, and traveled on a
pair of winged sandals. For 10 points, name this messenger of the Greek gods, whose Roman equivalent was
Mercury.
ANSWER: Hermes
004-09-4-15118

18. In one novel by this author, Mr. Campbell and Mr. Davidson notice that the title character failed
to take off his seaboots, despite that character's memory of a World War II stranding at sea. This
author also wrote a novel in which the discovery of a downed airman leads to the death of Simon. In
that work by this author, (*) Roger lets loose a boulder that crushes Piggy and the conch. For 10 points,
name this author of Pincher Martin, who also wrote about a group of British boys like Ralph and Jack who
lose control on an island without adult supervision in Lord of the Flies.
ANSWER: William Gerald Golding
023-09-4-15119

19. This thinker defended Christianity against freethinkers in Alcipheron and attacked the notion of
fluxions and their use in calculus in The Analyst. He argued that human knowledge exists of only ideas
and spirits in one work and argued against the rational (*) materialism of Locke in another. He most
famously claimed that esse est precipi or "to be is to be perceived". For 10 points, name this idealist English
philosopher, the author of Three Dialogues Between Hylas and Philonous, and namesake of a university in
California.
ANSWER: Bishop George Berkeley
005-09-4-15120

20. This leader won the siege of Taillebourg after a failed revolt with his brothers Henry and Geoffrey
against his father. He defeated Isaac Komnenos to take control of Cyprus, which led to his capture by
Leopold V, Duke of Austria, who ransomed him to his mother. This ruler gave power to William
Longchamp in his absence and spent his final years battling a former ally, (*) Phillip II of France. This
son of Eleanor of Aquitaine was succeeded by King John. For 10 points, name this English king who fought
Saladin in the Third Crusade, known for a fiery epithet.
ANSWER: Richard I (or Richard the Lionhearted)
036-09-4-15121

Tournament-8 Round 15 Page 4 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

21. A novel from this country focuses on Dr. Pimko, who turns the kidnapped writer Johnnie into a
young boy, and is called Ferdydurke. An author from this country wrote the historical novel The
Teutonic Knights and a novel about Nero’s arbiter Petronius, (*) Quo Vadis. The title character of
Sophie’s Choice is from this country, which was the birthplace of Isaac Bashevis Singer. For 10 points,
name this country home to Witold Gombrowicz and Henryk Sienkiewicz, which is the setting of all novels
about Auschwitz.
ANSWER: Republic of Poland [or Rzeczpospolita Polska]
027-09-4-15122

Tournament-8 Round 15 Page 5 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

Tournament-8
Round 15
Bonuses
1. A more expansive definition of this movement was put forth by Vladimir Jabotinsky, who founded its
"revisionist" wing. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this movement, advocated by the newspaper The World and figures such as Chaim (HIGH-em)
Weizmann, which sought the establishment of a Jewish state.
ANSWER: Zionism
[10] This convener of the Basel congress and author of The Jewish State founded the organized Zionist
movement in response to French anti-Semitism in the 1890s.
ANSWER: Theodor Herzl
[10] In 1903, Britain proposed establishing a Jewish homeland in this colony. After independence, this
country saw the overthrow of Milton Obote (oh-BOAT-ay) by cannibal Idi Amin.
ANSWER: Republic of Uganda
019-09-4-15201

2. In this novel, Amelia Sedley marries William Dobbin after the death of George Osborne. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this "novel without a hero" written by the author of Barry Lyndon.
ANSWER: Vanity Fair
[10] This Victorian novelist wrote The Newcomes and Vanity Fair.
ANSWER: William Makepeace Thackeray
[10] This amoral protagonist of Vanity Fair takes advantage of Joseph Sedley and secretly marries Rawdon
Crawley.
ANSWER: Becky Sharp [or Becky Sharp]
038-09-4-15202

3. This event was a reaction to the Statute of Labourers and featured the priest John Ball giving a sermon.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this fourteenth century uprising in England which was led by Jack Straw and sometimes named
for another of its leaders.
ANSWER: English Peasants' Revolt of 1381 [or Wat Tyler's Rebellion]
[10] This son of Edward the Black Prince and patron of Chaucer was king of England at the time of the
revolt. He stayed in power until Henry IV deposed him in 1399.
ANSWER: Richard II of England
[10] Richard II reigned during a lapse in this century long conflict between England and France. It picked up
again when Henry V won the Battle of Agincourt.
ANSWER: Hundred Years' War [or Guerre de Cent Ans]
035-09-4-15203

Tournament-8 Round 15 Page 6 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

4. The central character of this novel does not see most of the letters from her sister Nettie, a missionary in
Africa. For 10 points each:
[10] Celie writes letters to God and helps blues singer Shug Avery open a pants store in what novel about
African-American life in the early twentieth century South?
ANSWER: The Color Purple
[10] This member of the first interracial marriage in Mississippi and author of The Third Life of Grange
Copeland wrote The Color Purple.
ANSWER: Alice Malsenior Walker
[10] The title character of this Walker novel participates in a love triangle with Lynne and Truman. Cormac
McCarthy's novel about the Glanton gang is named for a "blood" one of these.
ANSWER: Meridian
019-09-4-15204

5. He supported William Pitt the Younger’s rise to Prime Ministry, and he became king of Great Britain
during the Seven Years War. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this king, who ruled ruled during the passage of the Stamp Act before becoming senile and
having his son rule during the Regency period.
ANSWER: King George III of Great Britain and Ireland, Elector and King of Hanover [or George William
Frederick III; or Georg Wilhelm Frederick III]
[10] King George III pushed Parliament to continue funding to fight this war, in which 13 colonies overseas
fought over taxation. It ended with the creation of the United States.
ANSWER: American Revolutionary War [or American Revolution]
[10] During King George’s reign, the four Mysore wars were fought in this country. Lord Mountbatten was
a later Governor General of this place.
ANSWER: India [or Bharat]
027-09-4-15205

6. Rosalind Franklin studied the tobacco mosaic type of these infectious agents. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these not-quite-organisms that can only reproduce in a host cell, types of which include the
Epstein-Barr.
ANSWER: viruses
[10] In this reproductive process of viruses, the prophage is integrated into the host cell's genome so that the
host cell will replicate it and pass it to daughter cells.
ANSWER: lysogenic cycle
[10] This protein coat of a virus is often covered with a lipid viral envelope. Many viruses have an
icosahedron-shaped one of these structures.
ANSWER: capsid
036-09-4-15206

7. Name these aerophones that use reeds for 10 points each:
[10] This instrument, played by Jean Pierre Rampal, has a concerto written for it and harp by Mozart. It is
lower pitched than the piccolo, and is a metal cylinder held parallel to the ground.
ANSWER: flute
[10] Sibelius’s tone poem The Swan of Tuonela uses this instrument to represent the swan. It is a double
reed instrument pitched in E-flat that is larger than the oboe but not as deep as the bassoon.
ANSWER: English horn [or cor anglais]
[10] This instrument is often tuned in B-flat major and has a chalumeau register. It has a single reed and
plays a glissando in the beginning of a rhapsody by Gershwin.
ANSWER: clarinet
027-09-4-15207
Tournament-8 Round 15 Page 7 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

8. Identify the following namesakes of laws of physics, for 10 points each.
[10] This man's namesake loop and junction rules for electrical circuits rely on energy conservation, and he
discovered rubidium and cesium with burner inventor Robert Bunsen.
ANSWER: Gustav Kirchhoff
[10] This namesake of the SI unit of charge also names a law which describes the force two point charges
exert on each other.
ANSWER: Charles-Augustin de Coulomb
[10] This assistant to Tycho Brahe formulated three namesake laws of planetary motion, the first of which
states that planets have elliptical orbits.
ANSWER: Johannes Kepler
025-09-4-15208

9. Explorers in this country sought the "lost city" of Vilcabamba, which was determined to be identical with
the Espíritu Pampa ruin. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this country, where a wave of fortune-hunters discovered Machu Picchu and other ruins of the
Incan empire.
ANSWER: Republic of Peru [or Republica del Peru]
[10] Machu Picchu and Sacsahuamán (SOCKS-uh-wuh-MON) form a triangle of Incan ruins along with this
city. This home to the Golden Garden and Temple of the Sun was the capital of the Incan empire.
ANSWER: Cuzco [or Qosqo]
[10] Though beaten to the site by Augusto Berns, this American history professor and Senator is generally
credited with rediscovering Macchu Picchu, because he publicized the find in 1911.
ANSWER: Hiram Bingham
019-09-4-15209

10. George Norris led the revolt against one holder of this position, Joe Cannon. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this position held by Sam Rayburn during the presidencies of FDR and Truman.
ANSWER: Speaker of the House [prompt on Speaker]
[10] This Republican Speaker of the House from 1871 to 1875 lost the election of 1884 to Grover Cleveland
after his association with scandals led Democrats to call him "the continental liar from the state of Maine."
ANSWER: James Gillespie Blaine
[10] This Tennessee Democrat was the first Speaker of the House to become President, winning the election
of 1844. He declared war on Mexico and gained control of the Oregon Territory as part of his aggressive
program of territorial expansion.
ANSWER: James Knox Polk [or Young Hickory]
004-09-4-15210

11. Examples of these pairs include Hamilton, New Zealand and Córdoba, Spain. For 10 points each:
[10] Give this term for a pair of points on the Earth's surface that can be connected by a diameter through the
center of the earth.
ANSWER: antipodes
[10] Antipodes can be visualized by overlaying landmasses within the equirectangular or Lambert azimuthal
ones of these. A common example of these paradigms is the Mercator.
ANSWER: map projections
[10] The antipode of Washington, D.C. is an island known by this name, which, from 1625 to 1674, was the
name of the city now known as New York.
ANSWER: New Amsterdam
019-09-4-15211
Tournament-8 Round 15 Page 8 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

12. This English king had Thomas More executed for his opposition to the Act of Supremacy. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this man, the father of Queen Elizabeth I and the husband of Catherine Howard and Jane
Seymour, among others.
ANSWER: Henry VIII
[10] This advisor to Henry VIII started off as legal secretary to Cardinal Wolsey, and he drafted most of the
laws that established the Church of England. He oversaw the suppression of the Pilgrimage of Grace, and
was later beheaded.
ANSWER: Thomas Cromwell
[10] Thomas Cromwell arranged Henry VIII's marriage to this fourth wife. The sister of a German prince,
Henry tried to break the marriage contract after seeing her.
ANSWER: Anne of Cleves
030-09-4-15212

13. This type of rock is made through lithification. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this type of rock that includes gypsum, shale, and sandstone, which contrasts with metamorphic
and igneous rock.
ANSWER: sedimentary rock
[10] One group of sedimentary rocks, which includes shale and sandstone, is named after these fragmented
pieces of pre-existing rock.
ANSWER: clasts [or clastic rock]
[10] While conglomerate consists of rounded phenoclasts produced by abrasion, this other kind of gravel
consists of randomly oriented, angular clasts produced by fracture.
ANSWER: sedimentary breccia
003-09-4-15213

14. This author wrote a drama about the Thirty Years' War general Albrecht von Wallenstein. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this German dramatist who wrote about a character found in bed with his stepmother before
being turned over to the Inquisition in Don Carlos.
ANSWER: Johann Christoph Friedrich von Schiller
[10] In this Schiller play, the tyrannical governor Gessler is killed by the title character, who is forced to
shoot an apple off his son's head.
ANSWER: William Tell [or Wilhelm Tell]
[10] William Tell was forced to shoot that apple after he had failed to bow to one of these objects, which had
been placed on a pole by Gessler to assert his power.
ANSWER: hat [or equivalents]
023-09-4-15214

Tournament-8 Round 15 Page 9 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

15. This artist portrayed mankind's progression from childhood to old age in his series The Voyage of Life.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this American artist of The Ox-Bow, who painted a civilization's path from The Savage State to
Desolation in his series The Course of Empire.
ANSWER: Thomas Cole
[10] Thomas Cole was one of the leading members of this school of art. Its members depicted panoramic
American landscapes, including many paintings of its namesake New York waterway.
ANSWER: Hudson River School
[10] This other prominent Hudson River School artist painted Thomas Cole and William Cullen Bryant in
the Catskills in his painting Kindred Spirits.
ANSWER: Asher Brown Durand
023-09-4-15215

16. Loschmidt's paradox is an attempt to bypass this statement. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this statement, the violation of which is the aim of Maxwell's Demon.
ANSWER: The Second Law of Thermodynamics
[10] The Second Law of Thermodynamics typically states that this is always increasing. It can basically be
understood as the amount of disorder in a thermodynamic system.
ANSWER: entropy
[10] This man's H-Theorem describes the increase of the entropy of an ideal gas undergoing an irreversible
process. His namesake constant is roughly equal to 1.38 times ten to the negative twenty-third joules per
Kelvin.
ANSWER: Ludwig Eduard Boltzmann
026-09-4-15216

17. Name the following geographical features of South America, for 10 points each.
[10] This location is considered the world's driest desert, and it covers much of Chile's northern coast.
ANSWER: Atacama Desert
[10] This lake is suffering from an invasion of duckweed, and it is connected to the Caribbean through the
Gulf of Venezuala.
ANSWER: Lake Maracaibo or Lago de Maracaibo
[10] This dormant volcano in Ecuador is often claimed to be the farthest point of land from the center of the
Earth.
ANSWER: Chimborazo
023-09-4-15217

18. He inaccurately described "stout Cortez...upon a peak in Darien" in his poem "On First Looking into
Chapman's Homer." For 10 points each,
[10] Name this Romantic poet of "La Belle Dame Sans Merci" and "Ode to a Nightingale."
ANSWER: John Keats
[10]The line 'Beauty is truth, truth beauty" comes from this Keats poem, which describes the title object as a
"still unravish'd bride of quietness."
ANSWER: "Ode on a Grecian Urn"
[10] This Keats poem begins "a thing of beauty is a joy forever" and depicts the title shepherd's encounter
with Cynthia.
ANSWER: Endymion
038-09-4-15218

Tournament-8 Round 15 Page 10 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

19. One story by these people tells of Hunahpu and Xbalanque (shuh-buh-lawn-kay), who defeated the rulers
of Xibalba (shuh-BALL-buh) at the ballgame. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Mesoamerican culture, whose scripture, the Popul Vuh, contains that story.
ANSWER: Quiche Maya
[10] Hunahpu and Xbalanque were heroes that had this special familial relation. In Greek myth, this relation
was shared by Castor and Pollux, and Heracles and Iphicles.
ANSWER: twin brothers [prompt on brothers]
[10] One of these animals told Hunahpu and Xbalanque of their heritage and destiny. In Chinese myth, one
crossed a river on the back of an ox, then jumped off to become the first animal in the Zodiac.
ANSWER: rat
003-09-4-15219

20. Over a quarter-million troops were involved in this battle, which saw the death of Prince Bagration. For
10 points each:
[10] Smoke on the battlefield prevented Kutuzov’s loss from being worse than it was at what 1812 battle,
fought seventy miles west of Moscow in unsuccessful defense of the city?
ANSWER: Battle of Borodino
[10] Borodino proved to be a pyrrhic victory for this French emperor, who lost large amounts of soldiers
while retreating from the Russian winter. He was later defeated at Waterloo.
ANSWER: Napoleon Bonaparte [or Napoleon I]
[10] Napoleon’s invasion of Russia marked the final reversal of the Treaty of Tilsit, which Napoleon had
signed at a meeting on a boat with this Russian tsar.
ANSWER: Alexander I [or Aleksandr Pavlovich; prompt on Alexander]
019-09-4-15220

21. This character reveals that he is really Prince Dakkar at the conclusion of The Mysterious Island. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this character who takes Dr. Aronnax to Atlantis and Antarctica as the pilot of the Nautilus.
ANSWER: Captain Nemo
[10] This French novelist of Around the World in Eighty Days wrote about Captain Nemo in Twenty
Thousand Leagues Under the Sea.
ANSWER: Jules Verne
[10] In The Mysterious Island, Captain Nemo is killed by one of these events, which causes Axel and
Professor Lindenbrock to return to the Earth's surface in Journey to the Center of the Earth.
ANSWER: a volcanic eruption [accept clear-knowledge equivalents]
004-09-4-15221

Tournament-8 Round 15 Page 11 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

