Tournament-8
Round 11
Tossups
1. This artist designed toys such as a red fish with sharp teeth on rollers in his early years. This artist
of the sculptures Snake and the Cross and Swizzle Sticks designed a sculpture in which a white sphere
sits next to a wood stump designed to represent the rock of Gibraltar. This artist designed Bent
Propeller for the World Trade Center, and pioneered a form of sculpture in works like La Spirale and
(*) Lobster Trap and Fish Tail. For 10 points, name this American artist who designed moving sculptures
called mobiles.
ANSWER: Alexander Calder
033-09-4-11102

2. This man's namesake effect refers to the likelihood of lab equipment failure while he was in the
room. He proved the spin-statistics theorem, and explained the apparent violation of conservation of
energy and momentum in beta decay by proposing the (*) neutrino. His best-known contribution applies
to fermions and states that no two of them can have the same quantum state. For 10 points, name this 1945
Nobel Laureate in Physics, who has an eponymous Exclusion Principle.
ANSWER: Wolfgang Ernst Pauli
003-09-4-11103

3. This thinker argued that capitalism resulted from primitive accumulation instead of original
accumulation. This thinker labeled the idea that value exists in goods by themselves as "commodity
fetishism." His book Critique of the (*) Gotha Program argues that an ideal society would follow the
principle "from each, according to his ability; to each, according to his needs," although he felt that a more
equal society could only be achieved through the dictatorship of the proletariat. For 10 points, name this
author of Das Kapital, who cowrote The Communist Manifesto along with Friedrich Engels.
ANSWER: Karl Marx
004-09-4-11104

4. This politician caused a split in his party by rejecting the demands of William Yancey. One of this
man's policies was attacked in his rival's Peoria Speech. This creator of the Freeport Doctrine was
instrumental to the passage of the Compromise of 1850. He designed the (*) Kansas-Nebraska Act
before a split in his party caused John Breckinridge to receive more electoral votes than this man in the
election of 1860. For 10 points, name this proponent of popular sovereignty, a Democratic Illinois senator
who opposed Abraham Lincoln in a series of debates.
ANSWER: Stephen Arnold Douglas
035-09-4-11105

5. This type of motion can be modeled with a symmetric rigid rotor in Poinsot's construction.
Magnetic moments of particles experience the Larmor type of this phenomenon around an external
magnetic field, a form used in nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. In cases where this motion
causes an (*) axis to make a cone, the direction of this motion is orthogonal to the torque. For 10 points,
name this phenomenon exhibited by gyroscopes, in which the direction of the axis of a rotating body shifts.
ANSWER: precession
036-09-4-11106

Tournament-8 Round 11 Page 1 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. In one play by this author, Chance Wayne tries to blackmail Princess Kosmonopolis with a tape of
her discussing smuggling hashish into the United States. In another of his plays, a condom
embarrassingly falls out of Alvaro's pocket after he shows body art to Serafina. In addition to (*)
Sweet Bird of Youth and The Rose Tattoo, this author also wrote a play about the Pollitt family's patriarch
Big Daddy and the relationship between Brick and Maggie. For 10 points, name this American playwright of
Cat on a Hot Tin Roof.
ANSWER: Tennessee Williams
030-09-4-11107

7. After this god's wife built a child out of the mud, he sliced that child’s head off. This figure
voluntarily drank the Halahala poison, and he fathered a war god named Skanda. This deity was often
depicted with a blue throat on the dwarf Apasmara holding an hourglass. This god, whose dancing
form is known as Nataraja, was forced to put the head of an (*) elephant on Ganesh. This husband of
Parvati is most often shown as a four-armed cosmic dancer. For 10 points, name this Hindu god of
destruction, a member of the Trimurti along with Brahma and Vishnu.
ANSWER: Shiva [or Siva or Siwa]
027-09-4-11108

8. In one of this author's novels, a postcard sent to Marketa with the message "Long Live Trotsky"
gets Ludvik Jahn in trouble with his country's authorities. A dog named Karenin dies of a tumor in
another of this author's novels, which begins by rejecting Nietzsche's concept of eternal recurrence. In
his best-known novel, the university professor Franz has an affair with Sabina, the mistress of Tomas,
after (*) Prague Spring. For 10 points, name this Czech author of The Joke and The Unbearable Lightness
of Being.
ANSWER: Milan Kundera
034-09-4-11109

9. A coda in the final movement of this work is so long that it is colloquially known as the "tail that
wags the dog." Two cellos abandon the rest of the cellos to depict dripping water in its second section,
and its third section depicts a peasants' dance. The second section of this work contains a cadenza in
which the oboe, flute, and clarinet depict bird sounds in the setting (*) "By a Brook." Other sections
represent a "Storm" and a "happy gathering of country folk." For 10 points, name this symphony that was
originally titled "Recollections of Country Life," the F-Major sixth symphony of Beethoven.
ANSWER: Pastoral Symphony [accept Beethoven's Sixth Symphony in F-Major before read; accept "
Recollections of Country Life" before read]
026-09-4-11110

10. A mixture of these elements can increase the heat resistance of nichrome alloys and is known as
mischmetal. Many of these elements can be extracted from monazite. One of these elements was first
synthesized at Oak Ridge in 1947, and does not naturally occur on Earth. Three of these elements
were named after the town of (*) Ytterby. The ionic radii of these elements decrease across the period,
which is known as its namesake "contraction." For 10 points, name this period of rare earth metals with
atomic numbers fifty-seven to seventy-one, which lies above the actinides.
ANSWER: lanthanides [or lanthanoids; prompt on rare earth metals; prompt on rare earth elements]
003-09-4-11111

Tournament-8 Round 11 Page 2 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

11. This man supported the Plan de Casa Mata which led to the downfall of Augustín Iturbide. This
ruler signed the treaty of Velasco with David G. Burnet and his forces killed over 350 men in the
Goliad Massacre. He fled to Cuba after being overthrown by Ignacio Commonfort and Benito Juarez.
This man lost part of his (*) leg fighting the French, and he lost his fake leg during the Battle of Cerro
Gordo. Earlier, this man lost at the battle of San Jacinto to Sam Houston. For 10 points, name this Mexican
president and general whose forces took the Alamo.
ANSWER: Antonio de Padua María Severino López de Santa Anna y Pérez de Lebrón
023-09-4-11112

12. The Hox genes NANOG and Oct-4, as well as the transcription factor SOX2, are critical to
maintaining the function of these cells, which require fibroblasts called feeder cells to be grown in
cultures. A property of them may be induced in other cells by the oncogene cMyc. The inner mass cells
of the blastocyst are (*) pleuripotent ones, while only the cells of the morula are truly totipotent. For 10
points, name this class of cells, able to differentiate into specialized cell types while replenishing themselves
through mitosis.
ANSWER: stem cells
022-09-4-11113

13. This thinker outlined a world government to prevent wars in his essay "Perpetual Peace." One of
this philosopher's describes the beautiful, good, agreeable and sublime forms of the aesthetic. This
thinker attempted to discern whether synthetic a priori knowledge was possible, and became a
philosopher after reading Hume's challenge to induction. This author of (*) Critique of Judgement
argued that an action was ethical only if it could be universally applied without contradicting itself. For 10
points, name this philosopher who devised the "categorical imperative" and wrote Critique of Pure Reason.
ANSWER: Immanuel Kant
038-09-4-11114

14. This loser of the Battle of the Golden Spirs petitioned for safe passage through the Pyrenees at the
conclusion of the Aragonese Crusade. This ruler was the subject of the bulls Clericos Laicos and
fueded with the issuer of Unum Sanctum, Boniface VIII. He roasted Jacques de Molay after his debt to
the (*) Knights Templar caused him to use his influence over Clement V to disband the organizationt. For
10 points, name this late Capetian king of France, who gained his nickname from his good looks.
ANSWER: Phillip IV of France [or Phillip the Fair]
002-09-4-11115

15. One of this man's poems declares "Long live the weeds and the wilderness yet," while another
parenthetically asks "Who knows how?" after describing "Whatever is fickle, freckled." Another of
his poems asks "Why do men now not reck his rod?" after equating the title object with the ooze of
oil, and begins "the world is charged with" the title phenomenon. This author of "The (*) Wreck of the
Deutschland" wrote a poem about a "morning's minion," "The Windhover," as well as a poem beginning
"Glory be to God for dappled things." For 10 points, name this Jesuit priest, an English poet who used
sprung rhythm in his poems "God's Grandeur" and "Pied Beauty."
ANSWER: Gerard Manley Hopkins
033-09-4-11116

Tournament-8 Round 11 Page 3 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

16. This man was second-in-command to José Millan Astray during experiences he would later write
about in his Diary of a Battalion. This man would later succeed Astray as commander of his country's
foreign legion after the third Rif War. This man merged the Carlist and (*) Falange parties in his
country during a civil war that removed Manuel Azaña from power. He was succeeded as head of state by
Juan Carlos I. For 10 points, name this man whose victory in his country's civil war allowed him to become
the long time dictator of Spain.
ANSWER: Francisco Franco Bahamonde
023-09-4-11117

17. Scenic byways in this city include Colonel By Drive, which runs along the Rideau Canal, and the
Rideau River terminates in this city. In 2001 it amalgamated with its suburbs such as Nepean and
Gloucester. This city lies along its namesake river across from Gatineau(*), and landmarks within this
city include the Peace Tower, Macdonald-Cartier International Airport, Confederation Boulevard, and 24
Sussex Drive, whose current resident is Stephen Harper. For 10 points, name this second most populated city
in Ontario, the capital city of Canada.
ANSWER: Ottawa
025-09-4-11118

18. One of this author's works deals with the death of Tao Chi'en, and another describes Irene
Beltrán's affair with Francisco Leal. In addition to Portrait in Sepia and Of Love and Shadows, this
author wrote a novel about a modern Scheherazade, (*) Eva Luna. Her most famous novel follows the
clairvoyant Clara and other members of the del Valle family. For 10 points, name this author of The House
of the Spirits, a cousin of a former Chilean president.
ANSWER: Isabel Allende
024-09-4-11119

19. This artist produced a series of photographs with Edward Muybridge, and a painting by this
artists depicts a group of students at the title location. In addition to The Swimming Hole, one work by
this artist includes the Girard Avenue Bridge(*) and a depiction of the artist and his friend, and another
work by this artist depicts a procedure performed to resolve a case of osteomyelitis of the femur. For 10
points, name this artist known for his scenes of Philadelphia life, who painted Max Schmitt in a Single Scull
and The Gross Clinic.
ANSWER: Thomas Eakins
038-09-4-11120

20. This man received financial support from a group known as the Secret Six. One plan organized by
this man reacted to the sack of Lawrence by murdering five men in Franklin County in the (*)
Pottawatomie Massacre. This man used the name Isaac Smith in a plan that caused the deaths of the marine
Luke Quinn and two of this man's sons. That plan by this man ended after a raid on an engine house resulted
in his arrest by Robert E. Lee. For 10 points, name this abolitionist who organized a raid on a federal armory
in Harpers Ferry.
ANSWER: John Brown
023-09-4-11121

Tournament-8 Round 11 Page 4 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

21. This author wrote a short novel about Maurice Bendrix's obsession with his former lover Sarah
Miles. This author created a character nicknamed "Ticki" who is given hints about how to find
smuggled diamonds by the Syrian Yusef and has an affair with Helen Rolt. This author wrote a novel
about Major (*) Scobie, as well as a novel about a man who goes by the name the Whiskey Priest as the
last cleric in his Mexican province. For 10 points, name this Catholic British author of The End of the Affair,
The Heart of the Matter, and The Power and the Glory.
ANSWER: Henry Graham Greene
027-09-4-11122

Tournament-8 Round 11 Page 5 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

Tournament-8
Round 11
Bonuses
1. One year prior to this agreement's implementation, the Tallmadge Amendment passed in the House of
Representatives. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this 1820 agreement which prohibited slavery north of the 36 degree latitude.
ANSWER: Missouri Compromise
[10] As part of the Missouri Compromise, this former portion of Massachusetts was admitted as a free state.
The boundary of this northeasternmost state was disputed in the later Aroostook War.
ANSWER: State of Maine
[10] A later unsuccessful attempt to control the spread of slavery was this one, which would have prohibited
slavery in any territory gained from the Mexican-American War.
ANSWER: Wilmot Proviso
020-09-4-11201

2. This author wrote a play set in Zurich, where Henry Carr attends a staging of The Importance of Being
Earnest. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this author of Travesties and The Real Inspector Hound, who wrote about Septimus Hodge and
his student Thomasina Coverly in his play Arcadia.
ANSWER: Sir Thomas Stoppard
[10] Stoppard wrote a "15-Minute" version of this Shakespearean play, which contains a scene where
Cornelius says "O, I am slain!" before Ophelia drowns herself.
ANSWER: The Tragedy of Hamlet, Prince of Denmark
[10] This Stoppard play is named for two envoys from Hamlet who are executed in England. It begins with
the title characters flipping a coin over and over, resulting in an improbable streak of heads.
ANSWER: Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead
020-09-4-11202

3. This composer wrote “Golliwog’s Cakewalk” for his Children’s Corner Suite , and one of his preludes is
entitled “The Girl With the Flaxen Hair.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this composer of Iberia and Images as well as the opera Pelleas and Melisande.
ANSWER: Achille-Claude Debussy
[10] Claude Debussy was a composer from this country. Other natives of this country include the composer
of a Pavane for orchestra, Gabriel Faure, and the composer of the Symphony Fantastique, Hector Berlioz.
ANSWER: France
[10] This other French composer wrote Three Pieces in the Shape of a Pear and Dessicated Embryos. He
also wrote Three Gymnopedies.
ANSWER: Erik-Alfred-Leslie Satie
027-09-4-11203

Tournament-8 Round 11 Page 6 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

4. Prior to this battle, the victorious side occupied Corinth and Patrae in order to control communications.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this 31 BCE naval battle off the Greek coast, where Antony and Cleopatra were decisively
defeated.
ANSWER: Battle of Actium
[10] The defeat of Antony at Actium left this adopted heir of Julius Caesar as the sole master of the Roman
world. He became the first emperor, reigning until 14 CE.
ANSWER: Augustus Caesar [or Octavian; or Gaius Julius Caesar Octavianus; or Gaius Octavius]
[10] This strong ally of Augustus was the commander of the winning fleet at Actium and was long the
designated heir to the empire, but he died two years before Augustus.
ANSWER: Marcus Vipsanius Agrippa
019-09-4-11204

5. An upside down violinist plays near a rightside up black clad man holding a scythe. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this painting in which a woman milks a goat inside the face of a large goat as it stares at a green
faced man.
ANSWER: I and the Village
[10] I and the Village was painted by this Russian born artist who depicted himself near the Eiffel tower
with extra digits in Self-Portrait with Seven Fingers.
ANSWER: Marc Chagall
[10] This Chagall painting depicts a burning synagogue in the right and other anti Jewish atrocities surround
the central image of Jesus on the Cross.
ANSWER: White Crucifixion
015-09-4-11205

6. In this novel, the Marxist revolutionary Valentin and the homosexual Molina share a jail cell for six
months. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this novel, whose conclusion features Valentin having a morphine-induced fantasy about his
former lover Marta, who takes him from prison to an island.
ANSWER: Kiss of the Spider Woman [or El Beso de la Mujer Arana]
[10] This author parodied dime novels in Heartbreak Tango, in addition to writing Kiss of the Spider Woman
.
ANSWER: Manuel Puig
[10] Manuel Puig is a novelist from this South American country, whose early years saw the emergence of
gaucho literature about life in the Pampas.
ANSWER: Argentina
030-09-4-11206

7. Identify some assorted French philosophers for 10 points each.
[10] This idealist author of Passions of the Soul is more famous for claiming "I think, therefore I am" in both
his Principles of Philosophy and his Discourse on Method.
ANSWER: René Descartes [or Renatus Cartesius]
[10] This philosopher of Specters of Marx advocated deconstrucionism in Of Grammatology.
ANSWER: Jacques Derrida [or Jackie Derrida]
[10] This author of Matter and Memory introduced his theory of "duration" in his Time and Free Will and
developed the concept of Élan vital in his Creative Evolution.
ANSWER: Henri Bergson [or Henri-Louis Bergson]
029-09-4-11207

Tournament-8 Round 11 Page 7 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

8. This novel's subplot focuses on the marriage between Kitty and Levin. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this novel about Count Vronsky's affair with the title character, who commits suicide by throwing
herself under a train.
ANSWER: Anna Karenina
[10] This Russian author wrote Anna Karenina, as well as War and Peace.
ANSWER: Leo Tolstoy or Lev Nikolayevich Tolstoy
[10] In this work by Tolstoy, the title character accepts his fate after fatally bruising his left side, and is cared
for by his servant Gerasim.
ANSWER: The Death of Ivan Ilyich
023-09-4-11208

9. In 1949 and 1950, Operation Magic Carpet allowed people to emigrate from Yemen to this country. For
10 points each:
[10] Name this country, which declared independence in 1948 and gained control of the West Bank after
1967's Six-Day War.
ANSWER: Israel [or the State of Israel]
[10] This first prime minister of Israel officially declared Israel's independence and led the country in the
Arab-Israeli War that same year.
ANSWER: David Ben-Gurion [or David Grun]
[10] This other prime minister held the office during the late 1990s and retook the office after Ehud Olmert's
2008 resignation.
ANSWER: Benjamin Netanyahu
025-09-4-11209

10. It is equal to two pi divided by the period. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this quantity measured in hertz.
ANSWER: frequency
[10] In this effect, the apparent frequency of a sound changes depending on whether the sound source is
moving toward or away from the observer.
ANSWER: Doppler-Fizeau Effect
[10] When the frequencies of two tones are not equal, these points of maximum intensity occur at a
frequency equal to the absolute value of the difference between those two frequencies.
ANSWER: beats
003-09-4-11210

11. This figure was turned into a woman and then back into a man as punishment after injuring some snakes.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this prophet of Greek myth, who was blinded for sharing the insights he learned from his gender
bending and later warned Oedipus and Creon about their fates.
ANSWER: Tiresias
[10] Another unlucky prophet in Greek myth was this woman, who was taken from Troy to Mycenae
(my-SEE-nee) by Agamemnon after being cursed to have no one believe her always-true prophecies.
ANSWER: Cassandra
[10] Cassandra’s gift and curse were both bestowed by this god, also the patron of music and healing. He
helped kill the children of Niobe alongside his twin sister Artemis.
ANSWER: Apollo
019-09-4-11211

Tournament-8 Round 11 Page 8 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

12. Alfonso of this family became Pope Calixtus III, and Rodrigo became Pope Alexander VI. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this Italian family that also included Lucrezia, as well as Cesar, who Machiavelli held up as a
model prince.
ANSWER: Borgia
[10] Once known as the Attendolo family, this family was given its name by the mercenary captain Alberica
da Barbiano. Under leaders such as Muzio and Francesco, this family ruled Milan for a century after the
Visconti.
ANSWER: Sforza
[10] This German merchant family's fortune was established by a weaver named Hans. Jacob the Rich of this
family got Charles V elected Holy Roman Emperor by bribing the electors.
ANSWER: Fugger
030-09-4-11212

13. Different ways of doing this include pancake, radix, and bubble. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this computer science problem that involves reordering a list of elements.
ANSWER: sorting
[10] This algorithm discovered by C.A.R. Hoare involves recursively sorting around a partitioning element
and is often compared with mergesort.
ANSWER: quicksort
[10] While quicksort technically operates in worst case Big O of n squared time, its average performance is
this, the lower bound for comparison-based sorting.
ANSWER: n log n [accept pretty much anything that includes n log n, such as theta of n log n]
001-09-4-11213

14. Arnold Hammond, Charles May, and Brigadier-General Tommy Dukes all drop by this novel's central
setting, the estate of Wragby. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this novel in which Clifford's impotence and infirmity leads Constance to have an affair with
the title character, the gamekeeper Oliver Mellors.
ANSWER: Lady Chatterley's Lover
[10] Lady Chatterley's Lover was written by this English author of the short story "Odour of
Chrysanthemums" and a novel about the artist Paul Morel, Sons and Lovers.
ANSWER: David Herbert Richards Lawrence
[10] Another D.H. Lawrence novel is this sequel to The Rainbow, which contrasts the relationship of Gudrun
Brangwen and Gerald Crich with the one between Ursula Brangwen and Rupert Birkin.
ANSWER: Women in Love
029-09-4-11214

15. It borders the ad Dahna desert, and is called Ar-Ramlah by native Bedouins. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this largest continuous sand desert in the world, which is home to Al-Ghawar, the world’s largest
oilfield.
ANSWER: Rub’ al-Khali [or the Empty Quarter]
[10] The Rub’ al-Khali lies mainly in this nation, that is home to the holy cities Mecca and Medina, and has
capital at Riyadh.
ANSWER: Kingdom of Saudi Arabia [or Al-Mamlakah al-?Arabiyah as-Sa?udiyah]
[10] Part of the Rub’ al-Khali can be found in this country, where the Hajar mountains run near the shore
with its namesake gulf. Sultans from here ruled Zanzibar, and its capital is Musqat.
ANSWER: Sultanate of Oman [or Saltanat ‘ Uman]
027-09-4-11215

Tournament-8 Round 11 Page 9 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

16. Alexander Fleming realized that some organisms in this kingdom were antibiotic against
Staphylococcus. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this kingdom that includes penicillin molds and a lot of mushrooms.
ANSWER: Fungi
[10] Fungi mycelium are made of these long and chitinous cells.
ANSWER: hyphae
[10] Hyphae are separated by these cross walls. This also used to refer to the walls between chambers of
cephalopods.
ANSWER: septa
036-09-4-11216

17. This man wrote a work that used Sprechstimme, or a semi-spoken, semi-sung vocal part entitled Pierrot
Lunaire. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this composer of works like Moses und Aron and Gurrelieder. He developed 12-tone serialism as
well as atonality.
ANSWER: Arnold Schoenberg
[10] Arnold Schoenberg expressed the belief that not enough good music had been written yet in the major
key of this note, which is a whole step below D.
ANSWER: C [or fixed-do do]
[10] This man wrote an orchestral Passacaglia and became one of Schoenberg’s most noted pupils of
serialism alongside Alban Berg.
ANSWER: Anton von Webern
027-09-4-11217

18. The oxide of this element is sometimes found in nature as corundum. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this element that is extracted from bauxite in the Bayer Process.
ANSWER: aluminum [or Al]
[10] In this industrial process, molten cryolite is used to isolate pure aluminum from alumina.
ANSWER: Hall-Heroult Process
[10] Aluminum chloride is a catalyst used for this type of electrophilic aromatic substitution, which causes
the alkylation or acylation of aromatic rings.
ANSWER: Friedel-Crafts Reaction
036-09-4-11218

19. Writing systems that lack these are known as abjads, and so-called "r-colored" ones are distinguished by
a low third formant. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify these open-tract syllabic sounds that can be classified by their height, roundedness, backness,
length, and nasalization.
ANSWER: vowels
[10] The Great Vowel Shift was studied by Otto Jespersen, a linguist from this country. Jespersen and his
fellow linguist Rasmus Rask both attended this country's University of Copenhagen.
ANSWER: Kingdom of Denmark [or Kongeriget Danmark; accept word forms like Danish]
[10] Another Danish linguist, Karl Verner, names a law that clarifies an irregularity in this other linguistic
law, which describes the development of stops and fricatives in Proto-Germanic.
ANSWER: Grimm's Law
029-09-4-11219

Tournament-8 Round 11 Page 10 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

20. It was attended by Frederick Douglass and it was a reaction to exclusion from the first World's
Anti-Slavery Convention. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this event held in a New York Methodist chapel in 1848, a major event in the women's rights
movement.
ANSWER: Seneca Falls Convention
[10] This woman joined Lucretia Mott in organizing the Seneca Falls Convention. She joined Susan B.
Anthony to opposed the passage of the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments.
ANSWER: Elizabeth Cady Stanton
[10] Seneca Falls passed this Stanton authored document which announced that "The history of mankind is a
history of repeated injuries and usurpations on the part of man toward woman."
ANSWER: Declaration of Sentiments
032-09-4-11220

21. This poem asserts "I built my hut near the Congo and it lulled me to asleep." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this poem whose speaker remarks, "I've heard the singing of the Mississippi when Abe Lincoln
went down to New Orleans." It ends with the speaker declaring his soul has grown deep like the title objects.
ANSWER: "The Negro Speaks of Rivers"
[10] This Harlem Renaissance author of "Mother to Son" and "The Negro Speaks of Rivers" asked "What
happens to a dream deferred?" in his poem "Harlem."
ANSWER: Langston Hughes
[10] A Langston Hughes poem named for this place urges "Let it be the dream it used to be." Hughes also
wrote a poem named "I, Too, Sing" this place.
ANSWER: the United States of America
033-09-4-11221

Tournament-8 Round 11 Page 11 of 11
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

