DENNIS HASKINS OPEN 2001 - UTC
TOSSUPS - SPECIAL TRASH ROUND
Questions by various authors from UTC's ACF Detox trash tournament, Jan. 2001

IMPORTANT NOTE: This round is 25 tossups, no bonuses. We'll keep score, but this is just for the honor and
glory. Fire away.
1.
This artist was discovered by Arista Records in 1997 while performing with Faithless, a band formed for
her by her older brother Rollo. Although she started music lessons at the age of 6 at London's Guildhall School
of Music, her song "Thank You" has appeared in both the film _ Sliding Doors _ and in Eminem's "Stan".
FTP, name this artist responsible for the _ Roswell_ theme song "Here With Me".
A: Dido
2.
Rob Burnett, Sam Adams, Michael McCrary, Jamie Sharper, Duane Starks, Kim Herring, Chris
McCallister, Peter Boulware, Rod Woodson, Tony Siragusa, and Ray Lewis, are FTP, the starters of what
vaunted defense which miraculously allowed Trent Dilfer to return to Tampa with at least a shred of dignity?
A - Baltimore Ravens
3.
It began on a small independent station in Minneapolis called KTMA in 1988 before being sold to the
Comedy Channel, an outfit that morphed into Comedy Central. Running from 1990-1996 on there, it produced
its first movie in 1996 for Universal. Produced by Best Brains, it was picked up by the Sci-Fi Channel, where it
ran three more seasons. FTP name this sci-fi/comedy show, hosted by Joel Hodgson and Mike Nelson.
MYstery Science Theater 3000
or MST3K
Answer:
4.
An expert in Kali-Eskrima-Silat, a martial art form of stick and knife fighting, she made her first
television appearance in 1990 on Beverly Hills 90210. She would later make guest appearances on X-Files and
on 3 episodes ofE.R. as a mother of an H.LV. baby. Her first regular role was Amy on Rhea Perlman's
ephemeral show Pearl-she would later go on to play Pearl in the 1998 film Payback. She appeared as an exgirlfriend in Jerry Maguire, as a hitch hiker in Play it to the Bone and as Princess Pei Pei in Jackie Chan's
Shanghai Noon. FTP, name this actress who has most recently appeared as one of Charlie's Angels, and as
Ling Woo in Ally McBeal.
Answer: Lucy LIU
5.
Surprisingly, one of the elements of Coyote Ugly he did not contribute was the main character's interest
in comic books. He was one of eight writers that took a crack at this film, though the aspect he most
contributed-his dialog-was mostly cut. His character names were used, as were his set pieces. There was no
cameo by Jay and Silent Bob. FTP, name this uncredited contributor to the script of Coyote Ugly, best known
for his films Clerks, Mallrats, Chasing Amy and Dogma.
Answer: KEVIN SMITH
6.
OK, so much for Google's "I'm feeling lucky button" - a search for this product led to the Zambian
affiliate of the Media Institute of Southern Africa. At epinions.com, 75% of drinkers give it good marks, but
the other 25% use phrases like "the most vile drink ever to be derived from alcohol." Introduced regionally in
1992 and nationally in 1994, it uses charcoal to filter out all "beer cues," including beer's color and taste. FTP
name this clear malt beverage from Coors.
Answer:
Zima
7.
Ignored, dirty secret, bored, all night restaurant, Barbie doll, Martha Stewart, cure-all pill, lifetime
girlfriend, stiletto heels, Friday paycheck, crutch, obligation, momma's favorite, prize your flaunt, last in line,
one of the guys, and portrait of perfection are all for 10 points-things that the singer won't be in what 2000
song by SheDaisy?
Answer:
"I will ... But"

8.
This 2.66 mile oval track has earned the title ofNASCAR super-speedway. Holding over 108,000 fans,
this track has seen numerous speed records since its 1969 opening. In fact, Mark Martin must have loved it,
since he set records on two occasions in 1997. FTP, name this Alabama race course 40 miles east of
Birmingham named for the city where it's located.
Answer: _Talladega_
9.
He's tying the knot with his long term girlfriend; this 39-year-old longtime bachelor will wed Jeanette
Ulrika Jonsson sometime before he hits the big 4-0 this coming September. His past romances have included
Pamela Anderson, Heather Locklear and Nicolette Sheridan, which beats the heck out of such onscreen leading
ladies as Felice Schachter, Jodie Foster (twice), and Erin Moran. FTP name this former teen idol, the other
Charles in Charge.
Answer: Scott Baio
10.
His next project will more than likely be 2003's Hulk, about research scientist Bruce Banner. While
attending NYU Film School, he worked with classmate Spike Lee on Joe's Bed-Sty Barbershop. After
garnering critical acclaim for his Yin Shi Nan Nu, or Eat Drink Man Woman, he made his first English picture,
directing Gwyneth Paltrow in Emma. He followed this up by working with Sigourney Weaver on The Ice
Storm, and guiding Jewel's feature film debut, Ride with the Devil. For 10 points-name this Taiwanese-born
director of 2000's Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon.
Answer:
Ang Lee
11.
The Joint Chiefs of Staff take over after the president is killed by terrorists, suspending the Constitution
and declaring martial law. Four Special Forces soldiers, drummed out of the military for a lack of loyalty, join
Owen Decker in The Resistance, out to revive democracy. Sound familiar? Probably not, as it was on Friday
nights on UPN and is now on hiatus. Name, FTP, this ostensible drama named for what the resistance was
fighting for.
ANS: FREEDOM
12. Their first album was a self-released EP called Fly Swatter, which they followed up with Buddha and
Cheshire Cat, the latter their first release on Grilled Cheese/Cargo. A lawsuit brought by an Irish group led
to a name addition before they hit the road in 1996-97 on the Warped Tour. Original drummer Scott Raynor was
replaced by Travis Barker in 1999. This is some of the history of, FTP, what San Diego band known for mostly
for their fourth album, Enema of the State?
ANS: BLINK 182
13.
This brand recently expanded to include a signature candle collection that is "now available at select
Wal-Mart stores". Visitors to their website can take advantage of an online offer that includes their products
and a CD that includes an exclusive version of the new Britney Spears song "Deep in My Heart". Meanwhile,
you can buy their new body wash and moisturizing lotion while deriving quite a high quantity of enjoyment
from their product line, if you believe their commercials. FTP, name this Clairol product that offers its users a
"Totally Organic Experience".
A: Clairol - Herbal Essence- s
(Note: Yes, I did have to consult the company website for the purposes of question research)
14.
This group formed at Vacaville High in 1993, with young Tobin Esperance replacing the original bassist
early on in the group's formation. The biological fathers of both drummer David Buckner and lead man Coby
Dick both served in Vietnam, with Buckner meeting his biological father once. This group is also noted for
their uniform of black Dickies pants and their album _ Infestation _. FTP, name this group that hit the top of
the Total Request Live charts with "Last Resort".
A: _ Papa Roach _

15.
It was designed by Gene Portwood and Lauren Elliot; the IBM version was programmed by Glenn
Axworthy. As issued by Broderbund, the accomplices included Dazzle Annie, Lady Agatha, and Scar Graynott.
As seen on PBS, they included Neemoi, Eartha Brute, and Patty Larceny. FTP name this geography game
turned TV series featuring a shadowy master criminal in a red fedora.
ANSWER: Where in the World is Carmen Sandiego?
[prompt on Carmen Sandiego - there are too many sequels]
16.
Fry some sliced, cooked ham in butter for several minutes then place a slice of warm ham on both halves
of your toasted English muffins. Meanwhile, using a saucepan that permits room for about 3 or 4 inches of
water, boil water over medium heat. Stir the water to make it swirl. Crack two eggs and slip the eggs into the
simmering water so the eggs swirl in the same direction. Reduce to low heat and poach the eggs for 3 to 5
minutes. Place the eggs on top of each ham slice. To top it off, cover the eggs in Hollandaise sauce. FTP, what
have you made?
EGGS BENEDICT
17.
A lever, a stop sign, a shoe, a bucket, a crank, 2 sets of gears, a metal ball, the rickety stairs, a rain pipe,
the helping hand rod, a thing-a-ma-jig, a bowling ball, a bathtub, a diving board, the diver, a washtub, and a
cage. These combine to create a Rube Goldberg-like contraption is the essential component for this Milton
Bradley game. FTP, name this game in which the winner is the last with a rodent on the board.
MOUSETRAP
18.
David Ogden Stiers and Miguel Ferrer starred in the TV pilot featuring this group, whose membership
has included at different times Paco Ramone, Beatriz DaCosta and John Henry Irons. Their first appearance
came in Brave and the Bold #28, though history has since changed so that three members of that first meeting
really weren't there. FTP, name this group of DC superheroes whose roster currently includes Martian
Manhunter, Green Lantern, Flash, Wonder Woman, Superman, and Batman.
Answer: Justice League of America
19.
Two of her best friends are Miss Paterson and Miss Other Paterson. She is a midwife and helps the likes
of Ritha Twila, Lena, and Sadie. She is played by Ella Mitchell, and Sherry (Nia Long) decides to come home
in the middle of a crisis, but agent Malcolm Turner decides to pose as her. FTP, name this character played not
only by Mitchell but also by Martin Lawrence in a 2000 film.
answer: _Big Momma_
20.
Steve Burns, Ivan Travalian, Tom Dobb, Arthur Kirkland, Frank Keller, John Milton, John Pappas,
Lowell Bergman, Tony D'Amato, Ricky Roma, Lefty Ruggiero, Tony Montana, Carlito Brigante, Vincent
Hanna, Sonny Wortzik, Frank Serpico, and Big Boy Caprice, all have been played by what actor, who won an
Oscar for playing Lt. Col. Frank Slade, but is perhaps best known as Don Michael Corleone
Answer:
Alfredo Pacino
21.
This fictional character is currently a Republican U.S. Senator from his native Ohio, having left his job
at a Wall Street firm. Born in 1965 in Kenya while his parents were serving in the Peace Corps, he was a quiz
bowl player at Harding High School in Columbus. Later, he attended Leland College, where he majored in
business and dated psychology major Lauren Miller, as played by Courteney Cox. For 10 points-name this
sitcom character, played by Michael J. Fox on Family Ties.
Answer:
Alex P. Keaton

22.
Listen up, Pukes. Born Robert Remus, he cut his teeth on a bogey wheel from a Patton tank. His first
words were "Semper Fi." It took a special breed of drill instructor to keep Lt. Falcon in line-this man was the
most qualified of the G.!. Joe team. When he's not destroying COBRA with his bare hands, he can be found
behind the scenes of the WWF, where he's a former champion and Commissioner. FTP, name this man who
turned his back on America during the Gulf War.
Answer: SGT. SLAUGHTER
23. This building opened on January 6, 1940, with a 36-27 victory for the home team over the Princeton Tigers.
According to legend, parts of the concourse became dormitory housing as a result of post- World War II
increases in enrollment, and its origins are traced in part to a matchbook design by Wallace Wade and the
building'S namesake, the school's athletic director. Construction is slated to bring air conditioning to this
9,314 seat facility by the start of the next season, although that may be small consolation to the likes of Kay
Yow, Pete Gillen, and their fellow ACC coaches and players. FTP, name this home of Carlos Boozer, Shawn
Battier, and Jason Williams, noted for the "Crazies" of the floor-level student section.
A: Cameron Indoor Stadium
24. Its website offers recipes for mixers such as "citrus spritzer" and "frozen Hawaiian." Under the banner
"Good news for your heart," it also touts studies suggesting that you can lower your cholesterol with 7 grams
daily of soluble psyllium fiber. That's about equal to six of the wafers (available in Apple Crisp or Cinnamon
Spice), or three doses of the more familiar orange powder mix. FTP name this Procter & Gamble laxative now
also billing itself as a dietary fiber supplement
Answer:
Metamucil
25.
Before hitting it big he wrote everything from coloring books to the backs of comic character trading
cards. Educated at Ohio State and New York Universities, he has written under the pseudonyms of Eric
Affabee and Zachary Blue. He has sold over 170 millions books, and has been married to Jane Waldhorn since
1969. FTP, name this author, called a literary training bra for Stephen King, who authored the Fear Street and
Goosebumps series of books.
Answer: R. L. STINE
26.
The site of his last appearance is a pile of rocks with the word "unless" on it. He disappeared near where
the Grickle-Grass grows. He had tried to protect the Truffula trees from the thneed production of the Onceler
[WUHN-sluhr]. FTP, name this ecological title character of a Dr. Seuss book.
answer: The Lorax
27. Julie Cox, not Virginia Madsen. Barbara Kodetova, not Sean Young. William Hurt, not Juergen
Prochnow. Alec Newman, not Kyle MacLachlan. Giancarlo Giannini, not Jose Ferrer. Matt Keeslar, not Sting.
P.H. Moriarity, not Patrick Stewart. These are the actors in the 2000, not 1984 adaptation ofFTP the film
version of what Frank Herbert epic?
Answer: Dune
28.
His major is landscape architecture, though he seems to have an interest in business. He recently wrote
a paper on opening a new business, an area in which he has personal experience as he recently opened a sports
bar outside Gaylord Entertainment Center. Pro football is this Ohio State student's primary concern, as he
recently joined Eric Dickerson in a group of backs to run more than 1200 yards in their first five seasons. FTP,
name his former Buckeye and current Tennessee Titans running back.
Answer: Eddie GEORGE

