UIUC Earlybird 2006 - Round 8
(Tossups by UIUC Academic Buzzer Team)
1. This person’s works Eugenia and Bethena probably bemoan his bad fortune with wives. Though this
artist’s A Guest of Honor is no longer extant, the Pulitzer Prize-winning Treemonisha has experienced a
considerable revival, though its initial failure and syphilis cost this composer his sanity. Compositions in
his characteristic style include the “Paragon”, “Magnetic”, “Weeping Willow”, and “Pineapple”. FTP,
name this writer of “Elite Syncopations,” “The Entertainer,” and “Maple Leaf Rag;” an American
composer known as the “king of ragtime.”
ANSWER: Scott Joplin
2. This being’s daughter Pyrrha married Deucaleon, thereby surviving the deluge. After being fashioned
from clay, this person was given a gift by each of the gods and was given in marriage to Epimetheus, the
brother of Prometheus. With a name meaning “all-gifted,” she was the first woman in Greek myth. FTP,
name this Greek woman who is most famous for the gift given her by Zeus, her namesake box, which she
opened, releasing all of life’s horrors.
ANSWER: Pandora (accept Epimetheus before “clay”)
3. It arises from the off-diagonal terms in the fluctuation dot-product moment and, as such, is an inherently
dissipative effect. It has two types, dynamic and kinematic, the latter being the former divided by the fluid
density. Measured in cgs units in poise or stokes, a fluid is said to be ideal if this property is zero for it.
FTP, name this fundamental property of fluid flow; the internal resistance of a fluid to flow.
ANSWER: viscosity
4. This person recounts a dying man’s looking back on his own life in Krapp’s Last Tape which, like the
novel Watt, was notably not written in French. This author’s novel trilogy Molloy, Malone Dies, and The
Unnamable preceded his one-act play about the end of the relationship between Hamm and Clov, Endgame.
FTP, name this Irish author and winner of the 1969 Nobel Prize in Literature probably known best for the
absurdist Waiting for Godot.
ANSWER: Samuel Barclay Beckett
5. The four sections of this publication include the Extensions of Remarks and the Daily Digest, the former
of which was once the appendix and consists of remarks not actually uttered during proceedings. First
published in 1879, it is published daily when its namesake body is in session. Its accuracy is sometimes at
question – for example, it quoted a moving speech by Hale Boggs that it claims occurred after Boggs’
death. FTP, name this publication, the official government report of all the comings and goings of the
United States Congress.
ANSWER: the Congressional Record
6. This person’s portrait was painted by Eugene Delacroix as a pendant to the portrait of his companion in
1838 and his tandem lessons with Alkan [al-KHAN] supported Alkan for many years. His many one-off
genre works include the Opus Fifty-Seven Berceuse, Opus Forty-Nine Fantasia, and Opus Sixty Barcarolle,
but this composer is much better known for his twenty-six preludes, four impromptus, and especially fiftyfive mazurkas and sixteen polonaises. FTP, name this Polish-born Romantic composer of works for piano
and lover of George Sand.
ANSWER: Frédéric Francois Chopin (or Fryderyk Franciszek Szopen)
7. This person was compelled to flee Rome in 1606 after killing a man because that man beat him at tennis.
This artist’s allegorical Amor Vincit Omnia is a harangue against pederasty, while works in his
characteristic style include The Deposition of Christ and The Supper at Emmaus. However, this painter’s
tenebrism is most famously exhibited in the revolutionary The Calling of St. Matthew. FTP, name this early
baroque Italian artist born Michelangelo Merisi who is known for the drastic lighting gradients in his
works.
ANSWER: Caravaggio (accept Michelangelo Merisi before it’s mentioned)

8. Derived by equating partial current densities for reacting species, this physical law has a ratio of activity
coefficients as a crucial parameter. Derived with a simplification of Goldman’s model, the standard form of
this relation contains a logarithmic pre-factor of the kinetic temperature over the number density times
Faraday’s constant. FTP, name this equation that gives the electrode potential in terms of a standard
electrode potential; a fundamental equation of electrochemistry named for a German.
ANSWER: the Nernst equation
9. The “Girl From Ipanema” is, ipso facto, a girl from this city of five point six million people. It has the
distinction of being the only city outside Europe to have been a European capital as, in 1808, the
Portuguese royal family fled here escape Napoleon’s imminent siege of Lisbon. Landmarks include the
thirty-eight-meter-tall statue “Christ the Redeemer” that sits atop Corcovado Mountain and the Maracanã
Stadium, one of the largest soccer stadiums in the world. FTP, name this Brazilian locale, home to
Copacabana beach.
ANSWER: Rio de Janeiro (prompt on “Rio”)
10. Pencil and Paper Ready. A set of ten elements has how many subsets? This problem can be best
approached as a counting problem. Every element of the set can either be in a subset or absent; thus, in a
given subset, there are two possibilities for each element. FTP, what the number of subsets, equal to two to
the tenth power?
ANSWER: 1024 (accept two to the tenth power or equivalents before “FTP”)
11. This person took great advantage of his father’s alliance with Tyre by working closely with its King
Hiram and received Gezer as a wedding gift from a Pharaoh. This ruler overcame the intrigue of Haggith,
Joab, and Adonijah by having himself anointed in his father’s lifetime and “completely satisfied” the
Queen of Sheba according to First Kings. FTP, name this king of Israel proverbial for his wisdom and
noted for building the first Temple of Jerusalem, which was known by his name.
ANSWER: Solomon (or Shlomo)
12. Columbia professor James Shotwell initially met with one of its namesakes and suggested what would
become this treaty and in the Senate it was championed by William Borah of Idaho. Problems with it
stemmed from the facts that it had no means of amendment, no expiration date, and no mechanism to
enforce its own provisions. FTP, identify this treaty drafted by and named for the U.S. Secretary of State
and Foreign Minister of France a decade after World War I; a pact that sought to end war by rendering it
illegal.
ANSWER: the Kellogg-Briand Pact (prompt on "Pact of Paris")
13. This person was once denied reentry into the United States because, when asked “What do you think of
Karl Marx?” at customs, he replied “I have never met him, but no doubt he is a great man.” He lived
entirely out of the goodwill of his colleagues since he never had a home and carried all of his belongings
with him in a suitcase. In his own personal lingo, children were epsilons and God was the Supreme Fascist.
He was extremely prolific, in part because he frequently took amphetamines so he could put in seventeenhour days doing math. FTP, name this eccentric Hungarian mathematician.
ANSWER: Paul Erdıs
14. The organizer of the Autumn Harvest Uprising, he was ousted from the Kuomintang, and retreated to
the country along with Zhu De. It was during the May Revolutions that this man began to learn of Marxist
ideologies; this led him to lead the so-called Long March from 1934. Late in life, he attempted to break
away from the Russian model by first promoting, then crushing the Cultural Revolution. FTP, name this
man, the architect and first leader of the People's Republic of China.
ANSWER: Mao Tse-Tung (or Mao Zedong)

15. This document's Preamble features four goals, including “saving succeeding generations from the
scourge of war” and it has 111 articles among nineteen chapters. Article Sixty-One established the fiftyfour-member Economic and Social Council, while Article Ninety-Two established the International Court
of Justice. FTP, name this document that established a major international organization currently headed by
Kofi Annan.
ANSWER: the United Nations Charter
16. In 1768, this person was accused of transporting contraband goods on the Liberty and a group of
citizens burned the ship in protest. He took over as president of the Second Continental Congress after
Peyton Randolph resigned, but retired a year later due to health problems. After performing his most
famous action, he commented “The British ministry can read that name without spectacles; let them double
their reward.” FTP, name this man, the first signer of the Declaration of Independence.
ANSWER: John Hancock
17. The narrative voice of this collection’s first work addresses the reader in the first line, calling him a
hypocrite, his likeness, and his brother; it later accuses the reader of reaching for fantasy. This work is
made up of three sections, including “Wine, Death, and Revolt,” where the speaker uses wine to bring
together his spleen world and ideal world. FTP, name this most famous poetry collection by Charles
Baudelaire.
ANSWER: The Flowers of Evil (or Le Fleurs du Mal)
18. This person claims to have no politics to speak of as he is a Liberal Unionist. In Hertfordshire, this
character is known by his real name, but he pretends to have a younger brother in London whom is really
himself. Left in a handbag in a cloakroom as a baby, he was found by Thomas Cardew, who made him
guardian to his granddaughter, Cecily. He encounters trouble when he falls for his friend’s cousin, as she is
in love with the name of his and Algernon’s alter ego. FTP, name this protagonist in The Importance of
Being Ernest by Oscar Wilde.
ANSWER: Jack (John) Worthing, J. P. (accept any underlined answer; prompt on “Earnest”)
19. Book 7 of Diogenes Laertius’ Lives of Eminent Philosophers deals with practitioners of this way of
thinking. Early practitioners included Chrysippus of Soli and Cleanthes of Assos, who were influenced by
lectures delivered near a colonnade, for which this philosophy is named; those lectures were delivered by
this school’s founder, Zeno of Citium. FTP, name this school of philosophy prominent in ancient Greece
and Rome, exemplified by the Meditations of Marcus Aurelius, and stressing perception, materialism,
reason, and freedom from emotion.
ANSWER: stoicism
20. This work’s main character aims to become a successful writer, but his love Nina Zarechnaya leaves
with his rival after his first play fails. The main character then kills the title animal and lays it at Nina’s
feet. Trigorin then casts Nina aside and, after she leaves Trepilov again, he kills himself. FTP, name this
play by Anton Chekhov in which Trigorin likens himself to the title bird.
ANSWER: The Seagull (or Chayka)
21. This engagement began with the transfer of the control of Bohemia to ten governors, of whom seven
were Catholic. During its the Danish period, Schleswig and Holstein were conquered, then handed back to
Christian IV via the Treaty of Lubeck. Tilly and Wallenstein were opposed by Gustavus Adolphus, who
entered the war to protect the Protestants, but was killed at the Battle of Lutzen. All these events transpired
during, FTP, what war, ended by the Treaty of Westphalia in 1648?
ANSWER: the Thirty Years’ War

UIUC Earlybird 2006 - Round 8
(Bonuses by UIUC Academic Buzzer Team)
1. Name each of the following about an American composer and his works FTP.
[10] This ballet written for Martha Graham tells the story of a common wedding in rural Pennsylvania. Its
most famous section is a set of variations on the Shaker hymn “Simple Gifts.”
ANSWER: Appalachian Spring, ballet for 13 instruments
[10] This man composed Appalachian Spring, which he knew as “Ballet for Martha,” along with some
Music for Theater, a Lincoln Portrait, and Rodeo.
ANSWER: Aaron Copland [COPE-land]
[10] Copland made extensive use of variations on cowboy songs for this earlier ballet, in which the shots in
a gunfight that the title character loses to Pat Garrett are depicted by various drums.
ANSWER: Billy the Kid, ballet
2. Answer each of the following about some constants FTP.
[10] This constant multiplies the numerical entropy to give the thermodynamic entropy; this makes sense as
it has units of entopy.
ANSWER: Boltzmann’s constant (prompt on “k”)
[10] Boltzmann’s constant is equal to this other notable constant divided by Avogadro’s number, which
makes sense since this constant has units of energy per unit temperature per mole.
ANSWER: the ideal gas constant (or universal gas constant or perfect gas constant; prompt on “R”)
[10] The gas constant for a particular gas is therefore related to the ratio of constant-volume and constantpressure version of this, which C. That ratio, called the adiabatic ratio, is symbolized gamma.
ANSWER: specific heats
3. Answer each of the following about a work of Shakespeare and a character therein FTP.
[10] In this play, Sebastian, Olivia’s brother is really alive and is getting ready to go to Illyria. Malvolio is
discontent throughout.
ANSWER: The Twelfth Night
[10] This character from The Twelfth Night ends-up marrying Duke Orsino.
ANSWER: Viola
[10] Viola disguises herself as this page boy to spy on the court of Orsino. To the delight of just about
everyone, Olivia finds Viola irresistibly attractive in this disguise.
ANSWER: Cesario
4. South Africa may be free, but these points are not. Answer these questions about South Africa FTPE.
[10] This city serves as the administrative capital of the country.
ANSWER: Pretoria
[10] Though this city is not one of the three capitals, it is the most populous in South Africa.
ANSWER: Johannesburg
[10] This small country is completely surrounded by South Africa.
ANSWER: Lesotho
5. Name each of the following people with various gifts for prophecy FTP.
[10] This complex bricolage Greek god has complete knowledge of the future; as such, he is the patron of
prophecy, often gifting various mortals with it.
ANSWER: Phoebus Apollo
[10] This Trojan princess and prophetess was taken home by Agamemnon, who refused to believe her
prophecies. This was the result of a curse Apollo placed on her for spurning his advances.
ANSWER: Cassandra
[10] This seer was struck blind when he saw Athena naked and had an odd penchant for changing sexes due
to striking mating snakes with a staff. Odysseus seeks-out his shade in the Hades.
ANSWER: Tiresias

6. Answer the following concerning ancient Greece FTPE.
[10] This period, occurring between the Bronze Age and the Hellenistic period, is the golden age of ancient
Greece, containing most of the civilization's great accomplishments.
ANSWER: the Hellenic period
[10] Alcibiades and Themistocles both were targets of this process, by which were exiled from Athens for
ten years if more than six thousand people wanted them out.
ANSWER: ostracism
[10] First formed in 478 BCE, this confederation was made up of the city-states of Asia Minor and its
primary goal was the defeat of the Persians. It lost its popularity when Athens began forcing members to
maintain allegiance and ended with the Second Peloponnesian War.
ANSWER: the Delian League
7. Answer each of the following about a playwright FTP.
[10] Classical sources attribute one hundred twenty-three plays to this great rival of Æschylus. Among
those extant today are Ajax, The Trachinian Women, The Trackers, Philoctetes, and Electra.
ANSWER: Sophocles
[10] This second work in the Theban cycle follows Oedipus Rex and finds Oedipus and his daughter
wandering to a sacred grove.
ANSWER: Oedipus at Colonus (or Oidipous epi Kolono)
[10] This final play of the Theban cycle sees the title daughter of Oedipus sentenced to death by Creon for
burying her brother Polynices. In the end, she, Haemon, and Euridyce all kill themselves.
ANSWER: Antigone
8. Identify the following about wars in which France, shockingly, lost FTPE.
[10] At the end of this War, France was allowed to keep St. Pierre and Miquelon, but was forced to ceede
all its other territories.
ANSWER: the Seven Years’ War (or the French and Indian War)
[10] This conflict pitted Louis XIV's France against the namesake alliance, led by England, the
Netherlands, and Austria. A prelude to the War of the Spanish Succession, it was ended by the Treaty of
Rijswijk [RISS-wick].
ANSWER: the War of the Grand Alliance (or the War of the League of Augsburg)
[10] During World War II, after France was conquered by Germany, the puppet state of Vichy was
established and headed by this hero of World War I.
ANSWER: Henri-Philippe Pétain
9. Identify these parts of the brain FTPE.
[10] This brain structure connects the two hemispheres.
ANSWER: the corpus callosum
[10] This small structure in the hypothalamus is responsible for generating the body’s circadian rhythms.
ANSWER: the suprachiasmatic nucleii
[10] These almond-shaped bundles of neurons are located deep within the lobes. There are believed to be
responsible for emotional memory.
ANSWER: amygdalae
10. Given a work by a German author, name the man who wrote it FTPE.
[10] The Caucasian Chalk Circle.
ANSWER: Bertolt Brecht
[10] Die Buddenbrooks.
ANSWER: Thomas Mann
[10] Der Steppenwolf.
ANSWER: Herman Hesse

11. Answer the following about the failures of Napoleon FTPE.
[10] On November 21, 1806, Napoleon issued the Berlin decrees which effectively began this attempt to
destroy British trade.
ANSWER: the continental system
[10] When Napoleon tried to enforce the continental system in Spain, it set off this disastrous conflict.
ANSWER: the Peninsular War
[10] Napoleon defeated but failed to crush this Prussian marshal and paid the price at Waterloo when he
came to the aid of Wellington.
ANSWER: Gebhard Blücher [BLUE-kerr]
12. Answer each of the following about some energy in motion FTP.
[10] Usually symbolized Q, this is simply energy associated with the motion of various particles that travels
from one body to another.
ANSWER: heat transfer
[10] This is the mechanism of heat transfer relevant to a fluid cooling a metal surface, for example. It is
first-order in that the rate of heat transfer by this mechanism is proportional to the temperature difference
between the cooling fluid and body being cooled.
ANSWER: convection (or convective heat transfer)
[10] This law discovered by a rather famous British scientist states that the rate of convection is
proportional to the temperature difference or, symbolically, Q equals h delta T.
ANSWER: Newton’s law of cooling
13. Answer each of the following about a literary work FTP.
[10] This play centers around the scheme of the title fox-like Venitian nobleman to exploit people’s greed
by faking his own death.
ANSWER: Volpone
[10] This English Stuart dramatist wrote Volpone.
ANSWER: Ben Jonson
[10] This character in Volpone made to wear ass’s ears for trying to bewhore his wife, who was accused by
Lady Politic of trying to seduce her husband.
ANSWER: Corvino
14. Answer the following about the Unification of Italy FTPE.
[10] After becoming Prime Minister of Piedmont in 1852, this conservative allied himself with Napoleon
III and intentionally started a war with Austria.
ANSWER: Camillo di Cavour
[10] This man worked as a candle-maker in New York and in armies in South America before returning to
Italy to found the Redshirts and agitate for unification.
ANSWER: Giuseppe Garibaldi
[10] In 1860, Garibaldi gathered thousands of soldiers and conquered this corrupt kingdom before moving
on to the mainland.
ANSWER: Kingdom of the Two Sicilies
15. Consider a standard deck of playing cards. FTPE:
[10] This is the probability of pulling a red card or a jack.
ANSWER: seven-thirteenths (accept equivalents)
[10] You draw one card. It is red. What is the probability that it is an eight?
ANSWER: one-thirteenth (accept equivalents)
[10] This is the probability that a card is red given that it is a jack.
ANSWER: one-half (accept equivalents)

16. Name these countries connected to the European Union FTPE.
[10] This applicant country signed an Association Agreement in 1963, but has yet to join because of its
poor human rights record and the fact that it does not recognize the government of Cyprus, an EU member.
ANSWER: Turkey
[10] This Atlantic island nation withdrew from the European Union in 1980 when it gained independence
from Denmark.
ANSWER: Greenland
[10] All or nothing, these two countries are slated to become members on January 1, 2007.
ANSWERS: Romania and Bulgaria
17. Answer each of the following about a book of the Bible FTP.
[10] Written on Patmos in the 90’s CE, this book of the New Testament is addressed “to the seven
Churches that are in Asia.” The author claims it was brought to him on a little scroll brought him by an
angel.
ANSWER: The Revelation to John (or The Book of Revelation or The Apocalypse of John)
[10] Revelation’s eighth and ninth chapters deal with six of these, which are sounded after the seventh seal
is opened. A seventh one is sounded in chapter eleven to herald the coming of the “kingdom of the Lord.”
ANSWER: trumpets
[10] This is the name of the allegorical creature who “sits on many waters.” This “MOTHER OF
HARLOTS AND OF THE ABOMINATIONS OF THE EARTH” appears in chapter 17 of Revelation.
ANSWER: Babylon the Great
18. Answer the following about a colonial South American dispute FTPE.
[10] This imaginary boundary was first placed one hundred leagues west of the Cape Verde Islands but,
after an agreement, it was displaced 370 leagues west.
ANSWER: the Line of Demarcation
[10] The Line of Demarcation was placed at 370 leagues after this agreement was signed between Spain
and Portugal.
ANSWER: Treaty of Tordesillas [tore-duh-SEA-us]
[10] The boundary of one hundred leagues was created by this pope, a Spaniard by birth.
ANSWER: Alexander VI
19. Name each of the following from population genetics FTP.
1. This is the random statistical change in allele frequencies in a population over time due to the
population’s finite size.
ANSWER: genetic drift
2. In this type of event, almost a whole population is killed-off in a short time, crimping-off the amount of
genetic diversity that survives. An event of this type introduces enormous genetic drifts.
ANSWER: bottlenecking
3. This familiar relation states that, in the absence of genetic drift and certain other factors, the allele
frequencies in a population will be given by p2 [pee-squared], pq [pee-queue], and q2 [queue-squared],
where p and q are the original probability of a dominant and recessive homozygote, respectively.
ANSWER: Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium (or Hardy-Weinberg equation or Hardy-Weinberg principle)
20. Name each of the following branches of philosophy FTP.
[10] This type of philosophy proposes to determine the properties of being as such and is sometimes known
as “first philosophy.” Its name relates it to the scientific study of observable phenomena.
ANSWER: metaphysics
[10] This is simply the study of beauty or taste.
ANSWER: aesthetics
[10] From the Greek for “study of reason,” this branch of philosophy studies the nature of knowledge.
ANSWER: epistemology

