UIUC Earlybird 2006 - Round 6
(Tossups by UIUC Academic Buzzer Team)
1. In this work, the main character deceives many characters including Ananias, a Puritan. The scammers
set up shop in Lovewit’s house and, at the end, Lovewit comes back and takes advantage of the scam
himself. One of the main characters is a chemist who wants to set up a tobacco shop, Abel Drugger. FTP, in
what Ben Jonson play does Subtle, the title character, fool people into thinking he can turn anything into
gold?
ANSWER: The Alchemist
2. Composed of linked acetylglucosamine molecules, this polysaccharide is stronger than cellulose. Some
insecticides target this compound because of its absence in humans. Surgical thread that degrades over time
is often made from this naturally occurring, organic polymer. From the Greek for “tunic,” it is often
embedded in a protein matrix in order to form an exoskeleton. FTP, identify this compound that makes-up
insect shells and fungus cell walls.
ANSWER: chitin
3. Passed over the President’s veto, it was specifically passed to protect the Secretary of War appointed by
the previous president. The President tried to force a judicial review by violating it and appointing first
Ulysses Grant and then Lorenzo Grant as Secretary of War, but Stanton refused to leave until May 1868.
FTP, name this 1867 act whose violation by Andrew Johnson led to his impeachment trial.
ANSWER: the Tenure of Office Act of 1867
4. An atypical work of this person is She Who Was the Helmet-Maker’s Beautiful Wife, while works outside
of his typical medium include Thought, which is unfinished, and The Kiss, both of which depict Camille
Claudel. This artist often had difficulty with critics as The Age of Bronze was accused of having been “cast
from life,” while display of his public monuments Balzac and The Burghers of Calais proved contentious.
FTP, name this sculptor best known for The Gates of Hell and The Thinker; works he produced in bronze in
nineteenth-century France.
ANSWER: François-Auguste-René Rodin
5. Chemical reactions of this type can be used to power an electric cell since, by definition, they are able to
generate a current. When balancing these types of reactions, one typically splits a reaction into two halfreactions and conserves the number of electrons. Most biochemical reactions are this type of reaction.
Metals rusting and potatoes browning are both everyday examples of this class of reactions. FTP, identify
these reactions in which atoms change oxidation state.
ANSWER: oxidation-reduction reactions (or redox reactions)
6. In this person’s novel Toda Roba, he wrote that “I am a mariner of Odysseus with heart of fire but with
mind ruthless and clear.” He focuses on the dual nature of man in The Odyssey: A Modern Sequel and, in
1956, he missed out on the Nobel Prize by one vote. FTP, identify the author of The Last Temptation of
Christ and Zorba the Greek.
ANSWER: Nikos Kazantzakis
7. In this conflict’s opening battle at Wissembourg, the aggressors were pushed back to Chalons-enChampagne and the forces of their main commander were split off from those of Marshal Bazaine, who
was focused on Metz. Marshal McMahon tried to rescue Bazaine, but this resulted in the battle of Sedan, at
which the leader of one of the belligerent nations was captured. The winning side eventually surrounded
Paris, and laid siege for four months until the French surrendered on January 28, 1871. FTP, name this
conflict that helped Bismarck to unify Germany and toppled Napoleon III.
ANSWER: the Franco-Prussian War (or Franco-German War)

8. This political scientist and historian spent a short time in jail for refusing to swear loyalty to LouisNapoleon’s new regime. Gustave de Beaumont accompanied him on a trip to America and they together
produced an examination of the prison system in that country; however, a work that this man produced
alone proved much more important. That book examines the relationship of American values to democracy.
FTP, name this author whose best-known work is the four-volume Democracy in America.
ANSWER: Alexis de Tocqueville
9. This person’s first important published work that was The Island Pharisees, for which he used the
pseudonym John Sinjohn. Some of his more famous works include In Chancery and The Silver Spoon, both
parts of his most famous series. The Man of Property is the first book in, FTP, what author’s Forsyte Saga?
ANSWER: John Galsworthy
10. In 1908, this city became the Al-Hijaz Railway’s southern terminus. Its name is the Arabic word for
“city.” Though it was the caliphate moved from here to Damascus in 661, it was home of the first four
caliphs. The tomb of the prophet Muhammed is located in this city, inside of the famous Mosque of the
Prophet Muhammed. FTP, name this holy city of Islam that is second in importance to Mecca only.
ANSWER: Medina
11. The brainchild of Colonel Edward House and a group known as “The Inquiry,” these were a counter to
the Bolsheviks’ plan to expose a number of secret treaties. After their creation, they were spread by people
working for General Creel and the Allies agreed to them with a couple of revisions. The first five were
aimed at international affairs, while eight were aimed at specific geographical questions. FTP, name these
aims of Woodrow Wilson, the last of which was a creation of a League of Nations.
ANSWER: Wilson’s Fourteen Points
12. This being absorbed Khenty-Imentin, the previous ruler of Abydos, taking his name as an epithet; he
was also syncretized with Apis to create Serapis. Possessor of the atef-crown, this deity’s symbols are the
crook and flail. After he was dismembered, this god’s wife sought the aid of Nephthys to re-assemble
thirteen of his fourteen pieces; this allowed him to conceive a child and achieve rule over the afterlife. FTP,
name this rival of Seth and husband of Isis; the Egyptian god of the dead.
ANSWER: Osirus (or Usiri)
13. In the continuum form of this law, the electric current density is proportional to the electric field. It
does not hold for every material, but materials that do follow this law are named for it. Both of Kirchoff’s
circuit rules can be derived from this law. Derivable from the Maxwell’s equations and Newton’s laws, this
law is named for a nineteenth-century German physicist. FTP name this law, one of the most important
theorems of DC circuit analysis, that states that the voltage drop is equal to the product of the current and
resistance.
ANSWER: Ohm’s law
14. The peak of this mountain is home to many astronomical observatories, but the natives protest
additional telescopes because it is the supposed dwelling place of the snow goddess Poliahu. It is the
highest peak of the Pacific basin, although only about 43% of its 32,000 foot height is above sea level. Its
name means “White Mountain” because the winter snow it collects is unusual for its location,
approximately twenty degrees North latitude. FTP, name this dormant volcano located on the island of
Hawaii.
ANSWER: Mauna Kea
15. This person was born in 1485, the daughter of Spanish royalty. Her first marriage to Arthur of Wales in
1501 left her a widow in 1502, but that marriage was ruled as having never been consummated by the Pope,
so she was able to remarry her dead husband’s younger brother in 1509. FTP, name this famous divorcee
whose inability to produce a male heir inspired Henry VIII to create the Church of England.
ANSWER: Catharine of Aragon (prompt on “Catherine”)

16. Before this concept’s namesake used it frequently, it was employed by Durand de Saint-Pourcain. Also
known as the law of economy or as the law of parsimony, this sharp principle stated that “Plurality should
not be posited without necessity.” Alternatively, it can be stated that “Entities are not to be multiplied
beyond necessity.” FTP, name the principle that states that, given two theories, the simpler is more likely to
be true.
ANSWER: Occam’s razor (accept law of parsimony or law of economy before they’re mentioned)
17. This work opens in the Korova milkbar, where the main characters get some “milago-plus.” This film
was withdrawn from its United Kingdom release in 1971 after its director received death threats and it was
not released there until 1998 and thirty seconds were trimmed from the US release in order for it to get an R
rating. The anarchic behavior of the youths in the film allegedly inspired copycat behavior. FTP, name this
Stanley Kubrick film starring Malcolm McDowell as a youth who enjoys “a bit of the old ultraviolence.”
ANSWER: A Clockwork Orange
18. The generalized kind of this corresponds to any degree of freedom of a system in Hamiltonian
mechanics. In special relativity it is made into a 4-vector by setting the time component equal to energy.
According to Newton’s second law, the negative gradient of the potential is equal to the time derivative of
this quantity. During all collisions this quantity is conserved. FTP, identify this vector described by Newton
as the “quantity of motion” that is classically the product of the mass and velocity.
ANSWER: momentum (prompt on “p” or “quantity of motion”)
19. Because of a wound, this person only saw two days of actual combat in World War I. It had taken him
five years to graduate from West Point because he had so much trouble with math, although he was able to
memorize long passages of Shakespeare and the Bible. By World War II, he had become a general, and led
American campaigns through Northern Africa and Italy. FTP, name this war hero criticized for his lack of
humor and the subject of the 1971 Best Picture-winning biopic.
ANSWER: George Smith Patton, Jr.
20. In this person’s only English-language work, Tess Truelove remains faithful to the dissipated Tom
Rakewell as per its libretto by W. H. Auden. This artist’s Septet, In Memoriam Dylan Thomas is in the
twelve-tone style, though the Symphony of Psalms is overtly harmonic. His notable works include The
Soldier’s Tale, the aforementioned The Rake’s Progress, Pulcinella, Petroushka, The Firebird, and the riotcausing The Rite of Spring. FTP, name this Russian composer known for his tonic innovations.
ANSWER: Igor Fyodorovich Stravinsky
21. Before moving to Paris, he published two volumes of poetry, Songs for a Summer Day and Tower of
Ivory. He held several administrative positions during World War II, including Assistant Secretary of the
Navy, and won a Pulitzer for his Collected Poems 1917-1952, but he is more famous for two other works
that won Pulitzers. FTP, what author won his first poetry Pulitzer for Conquistador and won for drama with
the verse drama J.B.?
ANSWER: Archibald MacLeish

UIUC Earlybird 2006 - Round 6
(Bonuses by UIUC Academic Buzzer Team)
1. The Treaty of Versailles was negotiated between the Allies and Germany at the end of World War I.
Given a World War I treaty, identify the country that the Allies negotiated it with, FTPE.
[10] Treaty of Sevres.
ANSWER: the Ottoman Empire (do not accept “Turkey”)
[10] Treaty of Neuilly [noo-ee-YEE].
ANSWER: Bulgaria
[10] Treaty of Saint-Germain [san jher-MAN]
ANSWER: Austria
2. Given a quote, name the Wes Anderson-directed movie FTPE.
[10] “I saved Latin. What did you ever do?”
ANSWER: Rushmore
[10] “Now I’m gonna go hunt down that shark, or whatever it is... and hopefully kill it. I don’t know how
yet. Maybe dynamite.”
ANSWER: The Life Aquatic with Steve Zissou
[10] “Anybody interested in grabbing a couple of burgers and hittin’ the cemetery?”
ANSWER: The Royal Tenenbaums
3. Answer each of the following about some philosophers with something in common FTP.
[10] After an early mental breakdown, this nineteenth-century English political philosopher went on to
create such works as A System of Logic, On the Subjection of Women, On Liberty, and Principles of
Political Economy.
ANSWER: John Stewart Mill
[10] Mill can be said to have been a student of this other English reformist philosopher, author of Fragment
on Government, Introduction to Principles of Morals and Legislation, and Panopticon.
ANSWER: Jeremy Bentham
[10] Jeremy Bentham and Mill are among the founders of this type of moral philosophy, which advocates
the greatest happiness for the greatest number as the highest good.
ANSWER: utilitarianism (or utilitarian philosophy)
4. Given a brief description, identify the following pharaohs, FTPE.
[10] According to Herodotus, he closed the temples, forbade human sacrifices, and demanded that all labor
be used to build his Great Pyramid.
ANSWER: Khufu (or Cheops)
[10] Near the end of his rule, he had all the images of his mother Hatshepsut destroyed, as she had usurped
the throne from him.
ANSWER: Thutmose III (or Thutmosis III; prompt on “Thutmose” or “Thutmosis”)
[10] Living to be 96, this son of Seti I fought several wars against the Syrians and the story of the Battle of
Kadesh is inscribed on the walls of his temple.
ANSWER: Ramses II (or Ramesses II; prompt on “Ramses” or “Ramesses”)
5. Given the Western African capital, name the country FTPE.
[10] Accra.
ANSWER: Ghana
[10] Dakar.
ANSWER: Senegal
[10] Ouagadougou.
ANSWER: Burkina Faso

6. Answer the following about the Aeneid FTPE.
[10] While trying to sail to Italy after fleeing Troy, Aeneas ends up in Carthage, where this queen falls in
love with him.
ANSWER: Dido
[10] After war breaks-out in Latium, Aeneas travels north where this goddess, his mother, gives him
weapons made by Vulcan.
ANSWER: Venus
[10] The final battle is supposed to be a one-on-one fight between Aeneas and this man, but a full-scale
battle breaks out. Aeneas ends up slaying this rival chieftain anyway.
ANSWER: Turnus
7. Answer the following about the early history of an artistic medium FTPE
[10] Early masters working in this medium include Anton Bragaglia, Alvin Coburn, Lewis Hine, and
Alexander Rodchenko, all of whom created gelatin silver prints.
ANSWER: photography
[10] This French artist and engineer invented the first successful form of photography, which is named for
him. His own works include 1837’s Still Life in Studio.
ANSWER: Louis-Jacques-Mandé Daguerre
[10] This Indian-born English photographer was the foremost portraitist of the nineteenth century, her
subjects including Alfred, Lord Tennyson and Charles Darwin. Her Julia Jackson and Ophelia series are
particularly brilliant.
ANSWER: Julia Margaret Cameron (or Julia Margaret Pattle)
8. Consider the number eighty-seven. FTPE:
[10] Express eighty-seven in base eight.
ANSWER: one hundred twenty-seven
[10] This is the largest prime divisor of eighty-seven.
ANSWER: twenty-nine
[10] This is the square-free part of eighty-seven.
ANSWER: eighty-seven
9. Answer these questions about a certain book of the Bible
[10] This book is named for one of the prophets, who was also called Belteshazzar.
ANSWER: Daniel
[10] Daniel served to interpret the dreams of which Babylonian king?
ANSWER: Nebuchadnezzar
[10] Name any one of Daniel’s three friends whom Nebuchadnezzar had thrown into a blazing furnace.
ANSWER: Shadrach, Meshach, or Abednego
10. Identify these people related to a certain event FTPE.
[10] This third Vice President of the United States ran for the Governor of New York in 1804 and lost.
ANSWER: Aaron Burr
[10] This first secretary of the treasury was an outspoken opponent of Burr, On July 11, 1804 he was fatally
wounded in a duel with Burr.
ANSWER: Alexander Hamilton
[10] After the duel, Burr had an unsuccessful political career and eventually found himself facing charges
of treason. His trial began on August 3, 1807 and was presided over by this long-serving Chief Justice of
the Supreme Court.
ANSWER: John Marshall

11. Identify each of the following works by Oscar Wilde FTPE.
[10] In this, his only novel, the title character pledges his soul if Basil Hallward’s painting of him ages
instead of him. His wish comes true and when he tries to destroy the painting, the knife instead ends up in
his heart.
ANSWER: The Picture of Dorian Gray
[10] In this play, the title character believes her husband is having an affair with Mrs. Erlynne but, in a
monologue, Mrs. Erlynne reveals that she is the title character’s mother.
ANSWER: Lady Windemere’s Fan
[10] This work, written after his release from prison, is about the feelings of one prisoner towards one who
is about to be hanged.
ANSWER: The Ballad of Reading Gaol
12. Identify the following international organizations FTPE.
[10] Created in 1949 to administer the alliance created by its namesake pact, this organization has
headquarters that were at first in Paris, but are now in Brussels.
ANSWER: North Atlantic Treaty Organization
[10] Established after the French withdrew from Indochina, it was backed by a Pacific Charter. It counted
France and England among its members but it was disbanded by 1977.
ANSWER: Southeast Asian Treaty Organization
[10] Founded in 1963 at Addis Ababa by 37 different nations, it aims to eradicate all colonialism, has
mediated several border disputes, and changed its name in 2002.
ANSWER: African Union (or Organization of African Unity)
13. Name each of the following notable amorous conquests of Zeus FTP.
[10] Zeus took the form of a giant eagle to abduct this Phrygian prince. Zeus liked the kid so much that he
kept him around as the divine cupbearer.
ANSWER: Ganymede
[10] Zeus took the form of a tame white bull to abduct this Tyrian princess. Zeus took her away to Crete,
where they love white bulls; there, she bore him the sons Minos, Rhadamanthys, and Sarpedon.
ANSWER: Europa
[10] This sea nymph used her special influence with Zeus to win favors for her son by Peleus, Achilles. The
Iliad frequently finds her clasping Zeus’s knees, whatever that means.
ANSWER: Thetis
14. Answer the following about a short story, FTPE.
[10] In what work does Cherokee Sal, the only woman in the title location, give birth to a baby, only for the
child to die in the flood at the end?
ANSWER: The Luck of Roaring Camp
[10] What western author penned The Luck of Roaring Camp?
ANSWER: Francis Bret Harte
[10] When the baby is christened, Stumpy gives him what first name?
ANSWER: Thomas
15. Identify these about a certain class of organisms FTPE.
[10] Exemplified by mushrooms, this kingdom of organisms uses thalli and spores to reproduce both
asexually and sexually.
ANSWER: fungi (or mycota)
[10] Rusts, smuts, and most mushrooms belong to this phylum. They are commonly known as “club
fungi.”
ANSWER: basidiomycota
[10] These “sac fungi” store their spores in a namesake sac. This phylum includes morels and single-celled
yeasts.
ANSWER: ascomycota

16. Given a description, identify the following concerning U.S. diplomatic policy FTPE.
[10] The general term for Theodore Roosevelt’s domestic policy, this was aimed at protecting consumers
and natural resources, regulating big business, and aiding organized labor.
ANSWER: the Square Deal
[10] Created by Taft’s Secretary of State Philander Knox, this was an attempt to improve financial
opportunities while furthering U.S. interests elsewhere at the same time.
ANSWER: Dollar Diplomacy
[10] It was formulated by George Kennan and was aimed at halting Soviet expansion through counterforce. A form of it was implemented under Truman as his namesake Doctrine and it became the basic
strategy throughout the Cold War.
ANSWER: containment
17. Identify these things related to electric circuits FTPE.
[10] This type of material diminishes the electric field in it by a characteristic factor. It can be used to
increase the amount of energy stored in a field per unit voltage producing the field.
ANSWER: dielectric
[10] A simple coil of wire may function as one of these devices that oppose any change in current.
ANSWER: inductor
[10] This simple electrical component only allows current to pass in one direction.
ANSWER: diode
18. Answer each of the following about some composers FTP.
[10] This nationalistic composer of such works as the Dumky Trio, Rusalka, and the Scherzo Capriccioso is
best known for his Slavonic Dances and “New World” Symphony.
ANSWER: Antonín Leopold Dvorák [duh-VORE-shock]
[10] This other nationalist composer wrote The Bartered Bride and Má vlast or My Country.
ANSWER: Bedrich Smetana [SMAY-tan-uh]
[10] Both Dvorák and Smetana were representative of the national style of this modern-day country, their
homeland, which was part of the Austrian Empire at the time of their births.
ANSWER: the Czech Republic
19. Given an element, give the color of it produces in the flame test of qualitative analysis FTPE.
[10] Sodium.
ANSWER: persistent yellow
[10] Potassium.
ANSWER: violet (or purple)
[10] Lithium.
ANSWER: red
20. Answer the following about the Spanish-American War and its aftermath FTPE.
[10] Theodore Roosevelt was a member of the Rough Riders, led by this future Chief of Staff.
ANSWER: Leonard Wood
[10] After the U.S. declared war on Spain, national hero of the Philippines returned to the Philippines and
declared their independence. The U.S. refused to recognize his authority and captured him on March 23,
1901.
ANSWER: Emilio Aguinaldo y Famy
[10] This set of guidelines for U.S.-Cuban relations was included in the Cuban Constitution. It barred other
nations from having control over Cuba’s affairs and allowed the U.S. to lease or buy lands to establish
naval bases.
ANSWER: the Platt Amendment

21. Answer each of the following about a work and its author FTP.
1. This unfinished work consists of nine groups of stories told by a group of pilgrims who set out from the
Tabard Inn “In April… when… people long to go on pilgrimages.”
ANSWER: The Canterbury Tales
2. This fourteenth-century courtier and author of The Book of the Duchess, The Parliament of Fowles, and
The House of Fame is best known as the author of The Canterbury Tales.
ANSWER: Geoffrey Chaucer
3. This character “know as Madame Eglantyne” tells two tales, the first about a Jewish blood libel in a
Christian town in Asia and the second a retelling of the story of St. Cecilia.
ANSWER: The Prioress (or The Nun)

