UIUC Earlybird 2006 - Round 2
(Tossups by UIUC Academic Buzzer Team)
1. Called the “self-created, to whom none had given birth,” the “lord of divine words,” and the “heart of
Ra,” this patron of the arts, hieroglyphics, science, and wisdom was believed to be the author of the Book
of the Dead. When Horus and Set fought, he was the judge, and one of his most important duties was to
write down the results of the weighing of the heart of a deceased entering the afterlife. FTP, name this ibisheaded Egyptian god often associated with writing.
ANSWER: Thoth
2. As a teenager, this person was shot by Harriet Bird but survived. He was first discovered by Sam
Simpson, but Sam died on the way to this man’s first tryout. Red Blow does his best to steer him out of
trouble, but both Judge Banner and Gus Sands attempt to bribe him to throw the final game that would give
the Knights the pennant. FTP, name this famous fictional baseball player, the main character in Bernard
Malamud’s The Natural.
ANSWER: Roy Hobbs
3. J.G. Fichte’s early works so resembled this person’s in style that they were misattributed for a time. A
student of Christian Wolff, this thinker posited the nebular hypothesis in Universal Natural History and
Theories of the Heavens and tried his hand at international politics in Project for a Perpetual Peace, an
application of his best-known moral idea, which was first posited in Foundations of the Metaphysics of
Morals. FTP, name this philosopher who expounded on his categorical imperative in the Critique of
Practical Reason, which he wrote as a professor in Königsberg, Germany.
ANSWER: Immanuel Kant
4. Pencil and Paper Ready. How many unique arrangements are there of the letters in the word
ALGEBRA? This problem can be done easily if you first note that there are seven letters in the word, but A
is repeated twice, thus we must divide seven factorial by two factorial. The multiplication can be further
simplified if you note that 5 factorial is 120. FTP, what is seven times 360?
ANSWER: 2520
5. At the end of each of the three stanzas of this poem, the narrator states that the title figure is “fallen cold
and dead”. This is established further in the last stanza, as he does not answer, nor does he feel the
narrator’s arm. The trip is over, and the prize was won, but at the end, the narrator walks the deck
mournfully. FTP, name this poem, one of several poems dedicated to Abraham Lincoln by Walt Whitman.
ANSWER: O Captain, My Captain
6. When this person’s master sent him to Boston, he applied for a job as a whaler and didn’t come back to
Boston for another 20 years. When he came back, a British soldier shot a boy while being taunted, after
which this man was inspired to make a speech about striking back against the British. On March 5, 1770,
he sounded the fire alarms, calling them to solve the British problem, and in the ensuing shooting, Samuel
Gray, James Caldwell and three others were killed. FTP, identify this black man, the first killed during
what would be called the Boston Massacre.
ANSWER: Crispus Attucks
7. His young son Dylan began calling him by his first and last name after seeing him on TV for so long; his
appearances that included spots for AT&T and Allstate. He grew up mostly in South Korea and Singapore
and later did two years of missionary work in Spain. This resident of Murray, Utah has a new book called
Brainiac: Adventures in the Curious, Competitive, Compulsive World of Trivia Buffs, but, FTP, who is
better known for his historic run on the television game show Jeopardy!
ANSWER: Kenneth Wayne Jennings III

8. Upon hearing a false rumor that he was dead, Thebes revolted, and he rushed south and sacked the city
except for Pindar’s home and the temples. When the son of Parmenion was implicated in a conspiracy
against him, he killed both Parmenion and his son, alienating his soldiers. The Egyptians saw him as the
son of Amon-Ra and, after sacking, Persepolis he became the ruler of the Persian empire. FTP, name this
son of Philip II of Macedon, a man whose conquests went as far east as northern India.
ANSWER: Alexander the Great (or Alexander III)
9. For his first film, he directed the first feature-length film made in Hollywood, The Squaw Man, in 1913.
He formed a production company with Jesse Lasky and Sam Goldwyn that later became Paramount
Pictures. His fame was so great that he was paid $10,000 to play himself in Billy Wilder’s Sunset Blvd.
FTP, name this man noted for his style of putting more money into production value than into big name
stars; the director of Cleopatra and The Ten Commandments.
ANSWER: Cecil B. DeMille
10. This state’s highest point, Granite Peak, features a plateau called “Froze-to-Death.” The four designs
voted on for its 2007 state quarter included a bull elk, a bison skull, and two featuring the words “Big Sky
Country.” Because its population is still under one million, its Senators Conrad Burns and Max Baucus
represent two-thirds of its Congressional delegation. FTP, name the state adjacent to more Canadian
provinces than any other.
ANSWER: Montana
11. Schmieder assembled the authoritative catalogue of this person’s work, the BWV. Re-discovered by
Mendelsshon in 1829, this artist’s English Suites inaugurated the genre of keyboard partitas, while his
Cantatas and Orgel-Büchlein are among the most frequently performed works of sacred music. This
composer’s immortal works include a Mass in B minor, the St. Matthew Passion, a Tocatta and Fugue in D
minor, and the Brandenburg Concertos. FTP, name this notable admirer of Buxtehude [BOOKS-tuh-youduh] and Kantor of the Leipzig Tomaskirche [TOM-us-ker-kuh], the most notable composer of the German
Baroque.
ANSWER: Johann Sebastian Bach (accept Johann Sebastian Bach; prompt on “Bach” or “J. Bach” or
“Johann Bach”)
12. Though it isn’t length, in the cgs system of units, this quantity is measured in centimeters; this makes
sense because it can be viewed as a purely geometric property of an object. For two parallel conducting
plates, this quantity is proportional to the area of the plates and inversely proportional to the plate
separation. FTP identify this electrical quantity defined as the ratio of charge to voltage on a body and that,
in the SI system, is measured in Farads.
ANSWER: capacitance
13. This person depicted a subject close to his heart in The Little Fur and Venus and Adonis, namely, his
third wife Helena Fourment, who also appears on the left in his Garden of Love. His second career as an
ambassador lead to the Allegory of Peace and War, which may have motivated Charles I to choose him to
decorate the ceiling of the royal Banqueting Hall at Whitehall Palace. FTP, name this painter known for his
decoration of the Luxembourg Palace with scenes from the life of Marie de’ Medici; a German-born
Belgian painter known for the plumpness of his female nudes.
ANSWER: Peter Paul Rubens
14. Nöldeke’s 1860 History of this book was highly influential for a number of years. The title of Hafez is
reserved for someone capable of reciting its entirety; this work is split into thirty ajza’ for purposes of
recitation, but it is more conventionally divided into one hundred sixteen chapters, known as surahs. FTP,
name this self-described “well-preserved tablet” that is held to be co-perfect and co-equal with Allah as the
chief holy book of Islam.
ANSWER: the Qur’an

15. James Joyce utilized these kinds of words in Finnegan’s Wake, though they were created hundreds of
years earlier when Humpty Dumpty explained what they were using the word slithy. Coming from the
French for “coat rack,” historical examples include Gestapo and Californication. FTP, Lewis Carroll
created what kind of word that is a combination of two words “packed up” into one?
ANSWER: portmanteau words
16. This body’s inner membrane increases its surface area-to-volume ratio by many folds known as cristae.
This membrane-enclosed system’s genetic properties lead to the endosymbiotic hypothesis, the idea that it
originated as a captured prokaryote. This organelle has its own DNA which, in humans, is inherited only
from the mother. ATPase proteins permeate this cellular organelle’s membranes since its function is to
create ATP. FTP, identify this organelle, the “powerhouse” of the cell.
ANSWER: mitochondrion (or mitochondria)
17. Martin Dies was the first chairman of this and Richard Nixon was a member of it. In 1969 it was
renamed the Internal Security Committee, though it was abolished six years later. In 1947, it charged Alvah
Bessie, Herbert Biberman and eight others in the entertainment industry with contempt and sent the
Hollywood Ten to prison. FTP, name this Congressional committee which was used by Joseph McCarthy
to rise to power.
ANSWER: House Un-American Activities Committee
18. This person’s father was a military governor appointed by Emperor Sigismund II and a member of the
Order of the Dragon. When his father was assassinated and his brother Mircea buried alive, he vowed to
have revenge. Upon claiming the throne of Wallachia, he invited the boyars to a feast and then arrested
them, beginning his reign of terror. FTP, name this famous count who is notorious for having people
executed by impalement.
ANSWER: Vlad the Impaler (accept Vlad III or Vlad Dracula or Vlad Tepes; prompt on “Vlad”)
19. While serving as a professor in São Paulo, Brazil, this person did research on the natives there, resulting
in Tristes Tropiques. In the first book of his Mythologiques series, The Raw and the Cooked, he examines a
Bororo myth and its variations all around the world. The school of thought he developed believes that all
cultures are built around the four relationships of brother and sister, husband and wife, father and son and
the mother’s brother and the sister’s son. FTP, name this French anthropologist most famous for publishing
his first major work, The Structure of Kinship in 1949.
ANSWER: Claude Lévi-Strauss
20. Events culminating in the event with this nickname started with the dismissal from a factory of four
workers from who happened to be members of a union headed by Father George Gapon. Over the next few
days, over 100,000 workers went on strike and Father Gapon wrote a petition which was signed by over
150,000 people. A large procession followed him when he tried to present it to the czar and, upon arriving
at the palace, they were fired upon. FTP, give the sanguine nickname for the events of January 22, 1905 in
St. Petersburg, Russia.
ANSWER: Bloody Sunday
21. For simple molecules, the atom with the lowest value of this is likely to be the center. When
determining the nature of a bond between atoms, the difference in this quantity can indicate whether or not
that bond is ionic. Although there are many scales used to measure this quantity, the Pauling scale is the
only one discussed in elementary chemistry classes; it arbitrarily sets the maximum at 4. Fluorine has the
highest value of, FTP, this chemical property that is the tendency of an atom to attract electrons to itself.
ANSWER: electronegativity
22. In the first edition, Lewis Theobald is given the leading role, but in the final edition, Colley Cibber is
named emperor. In the third book, Cibber falls asleep, and sees the past, present, and future, where
Dullness rules over all. In the fourth book, Dullness’ reign extends to scholarship, art, and science.
Alexander Pope attacks his critics in, FTP, what work, the “dunce-epic?”
ANSWER: The Dunciad

UIUC Earlybird 2006 - Round 2
(Bonuses by UIUC Academic Buzzer Team)
1. Identify these things from thermodynamics FTPE.
[10] This is the transitive law for thermodynamic systems. It states that if A is in thermal equilibrium with
B and B is in thermal equilibrium with C, then A must be in thermal equilibrium with C.
ANSWER: zeroth law of thermodynamics
[10] The second law of thermodynamics states that this thermodynamic quantity must increase over time
for an isolated system.
ANSWER: entropy
[10] According to the third law of thermodynamics, this is the entropy of a crystalline solid at absolute
zero.
ANSWER: zero
2. Name the following participants in the neoclassicist movement FTPE.
[10] This favorite of Napoleon created Madame Recamier, The Lictors Bring to Brutus the Bodies of His
Sons, The Oath of the Horatii, The Death of Socrates, and Death of Marat.
ANSWER: Jacques-Louis David [dah-VEED]
[10] Noted for his longevity and proclivity for female nudes, this portraitist created Apotheosis of Homer in
a neoclassical period, but is better known for The Turkish Bath and La Grand Odalisque.
ANSWER: Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres [AHN-gruh]
[10] This foremost neoclassical sculptor created such marbles as Napoleon Bonaparte as Mars Pacificator
and Pauline Borghese as Venus Victorious, which is hated by every woman I know for some reason.
ANSWER: Antonio Canova, marquis d’Ischia
3. Give the charge on each of these polyatomic ions FTPE.
[10] Nitrate.
ANSWER: minus one (accept one minus)
[10] Dichromate.
ANSWER: minus two (accept two minus)
[10] Thiocyanate.
ANSWER: minus one (accept one minus)
4. Maslow’s hierarchy of needs is commonly shown pictorially as a pyramid. Given these descriptions,
identify the described level of Maslow’s hierarchy of needs FTPE.
[10] At the base of the pyramid are these needs, which are the most basic of all. They include things such as
water, food, and, allegedly, sleep.
ANSWER: physiological needs
[10] This second level of Maslow’s pyramids consists of the most basic desires of human beings.
According to Maslow these needs come before love and friendship.
ANSWER: safety needs (or security needs)
[10] At the top of Maslow’s pyramid is this state, in which a person has all of their needs fulfilled. People
who have reached this state have learned how to use their unique skills to live their life the best they can.
ANSWER: self-actualization

5. Answer the following about biochemistry FTPE.
[10] This term denotes carbon-containing compounds that are produced by organisms. The incorrect belief
that compounds of this kind are produced only by living things is known as vitalism.
ANSWER: organic
[10] Vitalism was debunked in 1828 when Friedrich Wöhler produced this nitrogenous organic waste,
H2NCOH2, by reacting ammonium and cyanate.
ANSWER: urea (or carbamide)
[10] A 1953 experiment by this University of Chicago student and Harold Urey showed that amino acids
may be spontaneously synthesized by an electric discharge in conditions similar to those on primordial
Earth.
ANSWER: Stanley Miller
6. Name these things related to One Hundred Years of Solitude, FTPE.
[10] This Chilean is the author of One Hundred Years of Solitude.
ANSWER: Gabriel Garcia Marquez
[10] This is the town in which the story takes place. It was originally believed to have no connection to the
outside world. When it was founded, it only had twenty adobe houses.
ANSWER: Macondo
[10] Name the family central to the story that resides in Macondo. José Arcadio thinks ice is the greatest
invention, and Úrsula accidently discovers the path connecting the village to other places.
ANSWER: Buendía family
7. Name the battles from the Napoleonic Wars FTPE.
[10] Also known as the Battle of the Three Emperors, this August, 1805 battle is a major event in Tolstoy’s
War and Peace.
ANSWER: Battle of Austerlitz
[10] This 1812 French defeat by the Russians under the command of General Mikhail Kutusov, was the
single bloodiest battle during the wars.
ANSWER: Battle of Borodino
[10] This 1805 naval battle was won by England, but Admiral Horatio Nelson died in the fighting.
ANSWER: Battle of Trafalgar
8. Answer the following about a Greek hero FTPE.
[10] Accused of rape by Stheneboea, this somewhat devious Corinthian hero was sent by king Proteus of
Argos to Lydia to be disposed of. However, a bridle provided by Athena allowed him to avoid death.
ANSWER: Bellerophontes (or Hipponous)
[10] Bellerophon used his magic bridle to capture and tame this winged horse. With its help, he made the
Chimera eat lead, killing it.
ANSWER: Pegasus
[10] This king of Lydia set for Bellerophon the task of slaying the Chimera. When Bellerophon succeeded,
he saw the error of trying to kill the man and gave Bellerophon his daughter in marriage.
ANSWER: Iobates
9. The television poker boom has led to new “careers” for a number of professional players. FTPE:
[10] He won the 2000 European Finals of Poker at the Aviation Club in Paris, now a stop on the World
Poker Tour, which he co-hosts.
ANSWER: Mike Sexton
[10] This former attorney in the Los Angeles District Attorney’s office won two World Series of Poker
bracelets in 2005 and is a co-host of the Professional Poker Tour.
ANSWER: Mark Seif
[10] This two-time winner from the first season of the World Poker Tour occasionally picks up the
microphone as a poker commentator for Fox Sports.
ANSWER: Howard Lederer

10. Name these characters from Oedipus Rex FTPE.
[10] He returns from the Oracle at Delphi to tell Oedipus that the plague will leave Thebes when the
murderer of King Laius is killed or banished.
ANSWER: Creon
[10] He is lead by a small boy because he is blind, and Oedipus accuses him of being part of a plot with
Creon to remove Oedipus from power.
ANSWER: Tiresias
[10] She was Laius’ wife but is now married to Oedipus. Upon learning that she married her son, she kills
herself.
ANSWER: Jocasta
11. Answer the following about movements to ban alcohol consumption in the United States FTPE.
[10] This leader in the temperance movement in the late 19th century was infamous for tearing up bars with
a hatchet.
ANSWER: Carrie Nation
[10] Also known as the National Prohibition Act, it prohibited the manufacture, transportation and sale of
beverages containing more than 0.5 per cent alcohol.
ANSWER: the Volstead Act
[10] This amendment, passed in 1933, effectively ended Prohibition.
ANSWER: the 21st Amendment
12. FTPE find the following trigonometric values.
[10] The sine of x given that the cosine of x is one third.
ANSWER: two square root two over three (accept square root eight-ninths or other equivalents)
[10] The tangent of x given that the secant of x is two.
ANSWER: square root of three
[10] The cotangent of x given that the cosecant of x is square root three.
ANSWER: square root of two
13. Answer the following about the Russo-Japanese War FTPE.
[10] The war began when Japan, without declaring war, attacked the Russian fleet at this port.
ANSWER: Port Arthur
[10] In May, 1905, the Japanese fleet under Count Togo defeated the Russian Navy at this major battle.
ANSWER: the Battle of Sushima Strait
[10] This peace treaty, negotiated by President Theodore Roosevelt, ended the war in 1906.
ANSWER: the Treaty of Portsmouth
14. Answer each of the following about the literature of a certain country FTP.
[10] The “Five Classics” comprise some of the earliest of this nation’s extant literature. Some of the
vernacular fiction from its Yüan Dynasty is attributed to Lo Kuan-chung.
ANSWER: China (accept any variation of China)
[10] Among the works attributed to Lo Kuan-chung is this well-known historical epic, which tells of the
period following the Han Dynasty during which China was divided into a trio of warring states.
ANSWER: Romance of the Three Kingdoms (or San-kuo chih yen-i)
[10] This foremost Ming comic novel is the magnum opus of Wu Cheng’en. It tells the story of Xuanzang
and his overland voyage to India in search of Buddhist sacred texts in which he is joined by a simian
demigod.
ANSWER: Journey to the West (or Monkey or Journey to the West or Xiyouji or Hsi-yu chi)

15. Answer the following about a philosopher and his work FTPE.
[10] This editor of the New Testament and author of The Manuell of the Christen Knyght and The
Education of a Christian Prince was the most important humanist and scholar of the northern Renaissance.
ANSWER: Desiderius Erasmus of Rotterdam
[10] Desierius Erasmus is best known for this sardonic 1511 work in which the title female demigod claims
philosophy and theology as her providence in a speech in paean to herself.
ANSWER: The Praise of Folie (or Moriae encomium)
[10] Erasmus was a great friend and close philosophical ally of this English thinker and Archbishop of
Canterbury best known today as the author of Utopia.
ANSWER: St. Thomas More
16. Name the following books of the Old Testament FTPE.
[10] This middle member of the Pentateuch proscribes the rules of conduct for the priestly tribe. The
twenty-third of its twenty-seven chapters lays-out the rules for the Jewish festivals of Passover, Pentecost,
and Yom Kippur.
ANSWER: The Book of Leviticus (or Wayiqra’)
[10] The harangue of a preacher of Jerusalem, this shorter member of the Ketuvim and Megillot often
begins in translation “Vanity of vanities; all is vanity.”
ANSWER: The Book of Ecclesiastes (or Qohelet)
[10] This other portion of the Megillot describes the relationship of God to Israel in terms of a king’s
marriage of a beautiful Shulammite woman and consists of love poems.
ANSWER: Song of Solomon (or Song of Songs or Canticle of Canticles)
17. Name these medieval monarchs from descriptions FTPE.
[10] This French king led the Seventh and Eighth Crusades and, under his patronage the College of
Sorbonne was founded.
ANSWER: Louis IX (or Saint Louis; prompt on “Louis”)
[10] Victorious at the battle of Agincourt, this English king left his infant son as heir when he died in 1416.
ANSWER: Henry V (prompt on “Henry”)
[10] This successor to Henry II spent only six months of his reign in England as he was off fighting in the
Crusades.
ANSWER: Richard I (or Richard the Lion-heart or Richard the Lion-hearted or Richard Coeur de
Lion; prompt on “Richard”)
18. Given a definition, give the Italian term used in music FTPE.
[10] Meaning “soft,” it names a very common modern musical instrument.
ANSWER: piano
[10] This is a continuous variation of pitch from one note to another and means “slide.”
ANSWER: glissando
[10] This is a sequence of notes that would comprise a chord if played simultaneously.
ANSWER: arpeggio
19. Answer the following about space travel, 5-10-5-10.
[5] This Russian cosmonaut was the first man to travel in space.
ANSWER: Yuri Gagarin
[10] Name the spaceship on which Gagarin made his historic flight.
ANSWER: Vostok 1
[5] Less than a month after Gagarin’s flight, this American was launched into space.
ANSWER: Alan Shepherd
[10] Name the spaceship on which Shepherd made the historic flight.
ANSWER: Mercury 3

20. FTPE, given a country, identify its capital.
[10] Portugal.
ANSWER: Lisbon (or Lisboa)
[10] Suriname.
ANSWER: Paramaribo
[10] Azerbaijan.
ANSWER: Baku
21. Identify these types of seismic waves FTPE.
[10] This fastest type of wave shakes the ground in the direction of its propagation.
ANSWER: prompt waves
[10] These waves shake perpendicular to the direction of propagation. The difference in arrival time
between these waves and p waves can be used to estimate the distance of an earthquake.
ANSWER: second waves
[10] This type of surface wave causes horizontal shearing on the surface.
ANSWER: Love Waves
22. Name these Kate Chopin works from plot descriptions FTPE.
[10] Armand has the priceless layette burned on a pyre because he finds a letter from his mother saying that
she is not white, and therefore his child can’t be, either. His wife disappears into a swamp.
ANSWER: Désireé’s Baby
[10] Brentley Mallard is presumed dead in a train accident, so Josephine and Richards tell his wife, Louise.
She imagines her life without him when her husband shows up at the door. Deeply disappointed, she dies.
ANSWER: The Story of an Hour
[10] Edna Pontellier loves Robert Lebrun, but he leaves for Mexico and she has an affair with Alceé
Aerobin instead. She pursues life as a painter, but ultimately drowns herself.
ANSWER: The Awakening

