UIUC Earlybird 2006 - Round 7
(Tossups by UIUC Academic Buzzer Team)
1. There are thirteen of these in all, eleven spread amongst the 50 states, a twelfth for Washington, D.C.,
and a Federal one, which mostly handles patent and intellectual property type cases. The seventh of these is
seated in Chicago, in the Dirksen Federal Building. These operate under a system of mandatory review in
which they must hear any appeal from a lower court. FTP, give the common name for the districts in the
United States appellate court system.
ANSWER: the Circuit Courts (accept Federal Court of Appeals before appeal is mentioned)
2. Founder of the Isthmian Games, this person is claimed by Homer as the father of Glaucus from Ephyre,
though later authors claim that he and not Laertes was the father of Odysseus. The founder of Corinth and
son of Aeolus, this king ratted-out the abductor of Aegina and cheated death both by chaining-up Thanatos
and conspiring with his wife Merope to be remiss in his burial rituals, all of which angered Zeus. FTP,
name this man who, for his troubles, was condemned to Tartarus to eternally roll a rock up a hill.
ANSWER: Sisyphus
3. This person’s only monument is known simply as The Monument and stands on Fish Steeet Hill. This
designer’s experience as Savilian Professor of Astronomy aided him in designing The Royal Observatory,
Greenwich, while he designed the Repository of the Royal Society, of which he was a member. The creator
of Hampton Court Palace, among his numerous churches are St. Mary-le-Bow and the chapel of Penbroke
College, Cambridge. FTP, name this architect known for re-building St. Paul’s Cathedral and much of the
rest of London after the Great Fire of 1666.
ANSWER: Sir Christopher Wren
4. This person’s 1757 The History of Great Britain was so popular that it kept him well-off his entire life,
while he was an eminent economics for the Political Discourses from Essays Moral and Political, which
greatly influenced his colleague Adam Smith. This thinker’s Dialogues Concerning Natural Religion apply
his inductive method to theology, but his best-known work is a distillation of the early A Treatise of
Human Nature. FTP, name this author of An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding; a Scottish
empiricist philosopher.
ANSWER: David Hume
5. In this work, the main characters discuss how famous rulers have named cities after them, including
Adrianople and Athens, while searching for the Oracle of the Holy Bottle, which is located near Cathay in
Upper Egypt. One of the title characters is accompanied by a beggar named Panurge, while the other is
married to Gargamelle. FTP, name this most famous work by François Rabelais?
ANSWER: Gargantua and Pantagruel (or Gargantua et Pantagruel)
6. The original centrifugal model for this phenomenon has long been replaced by the isotactic “greased
onion” model, which relies on the buoyancy of the asthenosphere. The genesis of this idea is commonly
attributed to Alfred Wegener noticing in 1912 that the Eastern coast of South America might fit like a
puzzle piece into the Western coastline of Africa. The theory proposes, that, at one time, most of the land
on Earth was one mass called Pangaea. FTP, name this theory that suggests Earth’s landmasses are moving
further apart at the Atlantic Ocean and closer together across the Pacific.
ANSWER: the theory of continental drift
7. Hindley originally treats this person like a servant but, after this he leaves and becomes wealthy, Hindley
invites him back to ease his money troubles. Originally an orphan on the streets of Liverpool, he is taken in
by Mr. Earnshaw and falls in love with Catherine, but he begins plotting revenge when she marries Edgar
Linton. FTP, identify this vengeful character in Emily Bronte’s Wuthering Heights.
ANSWER: Heathcliff Heathcliff

8. Pencil and Paper Ready. If it takes Greg two hours to do a job and it takes Jimmy three hours to do the
same job, then, assuming they can work independently, how long would it take them both to do it together?
To solve this problem, you must first realize that the amount of work equals the rate at which it’s done
times the time spent working, then note that two peoples’ rate would be the sum of their individual rates.
FTP, solve the equation one hour equals quantity one half plus one third times t for t.
ANSWER: six fifths hours (accept 1.2 hours or other equivalents)
9. The campaign that culminated in this engagement was known as Operation Blue and, after it, the
aggressors’ commanding officer was captured as a prisoner of war. After losing this battle, only 90,000 of
the 350,000 that made up the Sixth Army were alive, and only 5,000 of those made it back to Berlin.
Friedrich Paulus was captured in this shattering defeat for Nazi Germany, a protracted but failed siege.
FTP, name this turning point of World War II, a defeat which halted Germany’s advance into Russia.
ANSWER: the Battle of Stalingrad
10. The narrator is sorry that “man’s dominion has broken Nature’s social union” and allows the title
figure, a small, sleek, cowering, timorous beast, to steal “an odd ear in 24 sheaves”. The title animal’s
house is in ruins and when he found a place beneath the fields, the narrator’s plow destroyed it. FTP, in
what poem by Robert Burns do “the best made schemes oft go awry?”
ANSWER: To a Mouse, On turning her up in her nest with the plough
11. Notable examples of these from the Vulgate include the Books of Esdras and Psalm 151, according to
the Council of Trent. They are subdivided into pseudepigrapha and deuterocanonical works, the latter of
which are accepted by some sects but not others and include Baruch and First and Second Maccabees and
the former of which are universally agreed to be spuriously attributed to a prophetic author. FTP, what is
this term denoting a set of non-canonical religious books or, by extension, any work of dubious authority?
ANSWER: apocrypha (accept word forms)
12. Members of this phylum exhibit five-fold symmetry and possess an open circulatory system. Though
they do not have brains, some species do have ganglia. They reproduce sexually, but many members have
remarkable powers of regeneration. Some species can be cut into pieces with each piece growing back to a
full organism. All members of this phylum have a water vascular system that aids in locomotion. FTP, sand
dollars, sea urchins, and starfish, are all members of what invertebrate phylum?
ANSWER: echinodermata
13. This person from a noble family in Gascony is assaulted by a man with a scar on his face, who steals
this man’s letter addressed to Monsieur de Treville. He later becomes a soldier under Monsieur de Essart
after proving himself in a fight, and he and his companions later go on a journey to retrieve Queen Anne’s
jewels from Buckingham. FTP, name this Dumas character who wants to become a musketeer.
ANSWER: d’Artagnan
14. This engagement began when Alexius I of Constantinople feared that his country would fall and called
for help from the Pope, who then issued the Synod of Clermont. Among its principal leaders were Stephen
of Blois and Duke Robert of Normandy and its first target was Nicaea, which was besieged. After capturing
the city they were after, Godfrey of Bouillon was elected as Guardian. FTP, name this, the first of many
attempts by Christians to take Jerusalem.
ANSWER: the First Crusade
15. Highlights of this institution’s collection include Rembrandt’s The Return of the Prodigal Son,
Leonardo’s Benois Madonna, and Matisse’s Dance II. Its core collections consist of purchases by Catherine
the Great in the eighteenth century and it is housed in six buildings, the most important one being the
former Winter Palace. In summer 2006, over 200 objects from its collection were discovered to be missing,
presumably stolen by curators. FTP, name this world-famous art museum in St. Petersburg, Russia.
ANSWER: the Hermitage Museum

16. During this conflict, a huge flap was created by W.H. Russell’s published accounts of the prevalence of
cholera. This war’s Battles of Alma River and Inkerman fell closely on either side of its most famous
engagement, the Battle of Balaklava, which Alfred, Lord Tennyson immortalized in the poem “The Charge
of the Light Brigade.” FTP, name this war ended by the Treaty of Paris in 1856 and fought by an alliance of
England, France, and the Ottoman Empire against Russia.
ANSWER: the Crimean War
17. A variant version of this work contains the Glory choir from Ivan Susanin [SOOS-uh-nin], since it
contains a politically sensitive theme. This musical work was written for consecration of the Cathedral of
Christ the Savior, which was built to commemorate the seventieth anniversary of the events it depicts.
Beginning with a hymn calling for the people to drive the Grande Armée [are-MAY] out of their land, it
notably uses cannons to depict various battles and intermingles the national anthems of France and Russia.
FTP, what is this musical work depicting Russian events in the Napoleonic Wars; an overture by Pyotr
Tchaikovsky?
ANSWER: 1812 -- Festival Overture, for orchestra in E flat major, Op. 49 (accept either underlined part)
18. To convert the third of these into an equation, Newton added a constant of proportionality equal to four
pi squared over big-G times the sum of the masses involved. Derived from observations in the the
Rudolphine tables, this set of three physical statements give linear momentum, angular momentum, and
energy conservation for the system defined by two bodies bound by gravity. FTP, name this set of three
astronomical laws stating that planets orbit in elipses, that the line joining a planet and the sun sweeps-out
equal areas in equal times, and that the squares of orbital periods go as the cubes of mean orbital distances.
ANSWER: Kepler’s laws of planetary motion
19. This group’s was known as I Ho Ch’uan. Its first targets were Christians and railways, and its primary
weapons were swords, knives, staves, and polearms. After the Empress didn’t try to stop them,
international aid came when Sir Claude MacDonald called for a sizeable force, and they were soundly
defeated. FTP, name this group, whose names translates as the Society of Harmonious Fists and which
created unrest in China in 1900.
ANSWER: the Boxers (accept Society of Righteous and Harmonious Fists before it’s mentioned)
20. This heir to most of Southern France, married Louis VII when she was only fifteen. After the loss of the
the Second Crusade, Louis tired of her failure to produce an heir and the two divorced. She had four
children by her next husband, including King John and Richard I, who would succeed his father. FTP,
name this wife of Henry II Plantagenet.
ANSWER: Eleanor of Aquitaine (prompt on “Eleanor”)
21. This painting was bought by the French state from the artist in 1891 and is still one of a few paintings
by American artists in the Musee d’Orsay. The titular figure is seated in profile against a gray wall with
one of the artist’s etchings and a black curtain with silver flecks to the right of the sitter’s feet. She is
dressed soberly in black with a white bonnet and gloves. FTP, name this 1871 James Abbot McNeil
Whistler portrait of a woman rather close to his heart.
ANSWER: Arrangement in Gray and Black, No. 1: Portrait of the Artist’s Mother (accept either
underlined part)

UIUC Earlybird 2006 - Round 7
(Bonuses by UIUC Academic Buzzer Team)
1. Given a character, identify the Eugene O’Neill work in which he or she would be found FTPE.
[10] Matt Bruke.
ANSWER: Anna Christie (or Chris Christopherson)
[10] Theodore Hickman.
ANSWER: The Iceman Cometh
[10] Yank.
ANSWER: The Hairy Ape
2. FTP, name each of the following artists who depicted David.
[10] The best-known depiction is by this Florentine who also painted the Sistine Chapel ceiling.
ANSWER: Michelangelo di Lodovico Buonarroti Simoni
[10] This sculptor allegedly used his own features for the face of David as he was shown hurling his
slingshot. He is better known for The Ecstasy of St. Teresa.
ANSWER: Gianlorenzo Bernini
[10] This dude’s 1434 bronze statue of David was the first life-size male nude since antiquity. In it, David
wears a hat with a large feathered cap and is stepping on Goliath’s head.
ANSWER: Donatello
3. Identify these principles from chemistry FTPE.
[10] This thermodynamic law states that the enthalpy change of a reaction is independent of the reaction
path.
ANSWER: Hess’s law
[10] This principle states that, if a system in equilibrium is moved away from equilibrium, the system will
tend change so as to restore the original equilibrium.
ANSWER: Le Chatelier’s principle
[10] This rule states that unoccupied orbitals will be filled before electrons pair up.
ANSWER: Hund’s first rule
4. Answer the following questions about the Ottoman Empire FTPE.
[10] In 1453, this Ottoman sultan conquered Byzantium. During his reign, the Janissary corps created by
his father expanded.
ANSWER: Mehmet II (prompt on “Mehmet”)
[10] In 1683, this city was attacked by the Ottomans, who were defeated by a coalition force led by the
king of Poland, John III Sobieski.
ANSWER: Vienna (or Wein)
[10] After losing this series of wars in 1912-13, the Ottoman Empire lost almost all of its European territory
to Greece, Serbia, Bulgaria, and Albania.
ANSWER: the Balkan Wars
5. Name each of the following English composers FTP.
[10] This founder of the Aldburg Fesitval is better known as the composer of Variations on a Theme of
Frank Bridge, the War Requiem, Peter Grimes, and The Young Person’s Guide to the Orchestra.
ANSWER: Edward Benjamin Britten, Baron Britten of Aldeburgh
[10] This quintessentially English composer was the son of a Swedish immigrant. His works include Egdon
Heath, the St. Paul’s Suite, At the Boar’s Head, and The Planets.
ANSWER: Gustavus Theodore Von Holst
[10] This pianist and composer is famous for his Sea Pictures, Enigma Variations and Pomp and
Circumstance marches.
ANSWER: Sir Edward William Elgar

6. Answer the following questions about conflicts in the Middle East FTPE.
[10] The First Gulf War began when Iraq invaded this oil-rich neighbor.
ANSWER: Kuwait
[10] Israel took control of the Sinai Peninsula, West Bank, and Gaza Strip after thoroughly beating an Arab
coalition in this 1967 war.
ANSWER: the Six Days War
[10] This country was reunited in 1990 after the communist northern half and the noncommunist southern
part agreed to a truce. Its capital is Sanaa.
ANSWER: Yemen
7. Name the following modern architects with major works in the United States FTPE.
[10] This foremost figure of the Prairie School and associate of Dankmar Adler and Louis Sullivan created
the Unity Temple of Oak Park, Illinois, the Robie House in Chicago, and Fallingwater.
ANSWER: Frank Lloyd Wright (or Frank Lincoln Wright)
[10] This MIT-educated architect designed the East Building of the National Gallery of Art in Washington,
D.C.; Boston’s John Hancock Tower; and a glass pyramid for the Louvre.
ANSWER: Ieoh Ming Pei
[10] This winner of the first Pritzker Prize created the AT&T Building and IDS Center and collaborated on
the Seagram Building. His own Glass House in New Cannan, Connecticut is also well-known.
ANSWER: Philip Cortelyou Johnson
8. Franklin Delano Roosevelt had many enemies. Name some of them from the following clues FTPE.
[10] This Louisiana Senator was initially an FDR supporter, but split with him in 1933. His Share the
Wealth program made him extremely popular until he was assassinated in 1935.
ANSWER: Huey Long
[10] This Irish Catholic priest was one his most vocal opponents. He attacked Roosevelt and Jews during
his broadcasts from the Church of the Little Flower, which expressed his isolationism.
ANSWER: Charles Coughlin
[10] This Kansas Republican was FDR’s opponent in the 1936 elections.
ANSWER: Alfred Landon
9. Identify these schools of psychology FTPE.
[10] Founded by Max Wertheimer, this school of psychology emphasized the study of the whole as more
important than the sum of its parts. Its name is a German work roughly meaning “wholeness.”
ANSWER: gestalt psychology (or gestaltism)
[10] Proponents of this school of psychology included Wilhelm Wundt and Edward Titchener. They
believed that complex thought processes could be broken down into fundamental atomistic processes.
ANSWER: structuralism (or structuralist psychology)
[10] B.F. Skinner was an important figure in this school of psychology. They believed that psychology was
not the science of the mind, but rather the study of their namesake phenomena.
ANSWER: behaviorism (or behaviorist psychology)
10. Given two rivers, name the state in which they meet FTPE.
[10] The Allegheny and Monongahela.
ANSWER: Pennsylvania
[10] The Snake and Columbia.
ANSWER: Washington
[10] The Gila and Colorado.
ANSWER: Arizona

11. Let the set A have elements one, three, and seven. Let the set B have elements two, three, seven, and
nine. FTPE:
[10] These are the elements in the the intersection of A and B.
ANSWER: three and seven (accept in any order)
[10] This is A minus B.
ANSWER: one
[10] These three elements are in the symmetric difference of A and B.
ANSWER: one, two, and nine (accept in any order any order)
12. Identify the following Russian literary characters FTPE.
[10] This Turgenev character is seen as the classical nihilist and makes a visit to the Kirsanov estate in
Fathers and Sons.
ANSWER: Evgenii Bazarov (accept either name)
[10] In a Nikolay Gogol work, Khlestakov is confused with this title official and takes advantage of the
mistake. He leaves before he is discovered, soon after which the real man arrives.
ANSWER: The Inspector-General (or Revizor)
[10] According to Pushink, after this ruler murdered the tsarevich Dmitry, a monk pretending to be Dmitry
invaded. He tried to keep his throne, but constant visions of his victim eventually kill him.
ANSWER: Boris Godunov (accept either name)
13. Answer each of the following about a Greco-Roman god FTP.
[10] Created parthenogetically after his jealous mother ate some lettuce, this deity was lamed after his
ugliness and orneriness caused him to be thrown from Mount Olympus, twice.
ANSWER: Hephaestus (or Hephaistos or Vulcan)
[10] Hephaestus employed these round-eyed giants; Arges, Brontes, and Steropes; making Zeus’
thunderbolts in his forge. Polyphemus was a notable later example of one of these.
ANSWER: Cyclopes (accept “Cyclopses”)
[10] Some sources claim that Hephaestus is the father of the Sicilian Palici by this Muse and Grace, the
patroness of Comedy.
ANSWER: Thalia
14. Given a Pulitzer Prize-winning work, identify its author FTPE.
[10] Humbolt’s Gift.
ANSWER: Saul Bellow
[10] Angels in America: Millennium Approaches.
ANSWER: Tony Kushner
[10] John Brown’s Body.
ANSWER: Stephen Vincent Benet [ben-AY]
15. Identify these crazy things from quantum mechanics FTPE.
[10] This principle guarantees that it is impossible to ever precisely know both the position and momentum
of a particle. Weird!
ANSWER: Heisenberg uncertainty principle (accept either underlined part)
[10] This principle states that any two fermions cannot occupy the same quantum state. This is why
electrons are confined two to an orbital.
ANSWER: Pauli exclusion principle (accept either underlined part)
[10] This principle states that, on large scales, quantum results must converge to classical results, since
classical results are right on large scales.
ANSWER: Bohr correspondence principle (accept either underlined part)

16. Give a brief description, name the period in Chinese dynasty, FTPE:
[10] Taking its name from the most aggressive of the Warring States, its first king took the title Shihuangdi.
ANSWER: Qin (Ch’in)
[10] Lasting from 618-907, Empress Wu, the only female Chinese emperor, ruled during this period.
ANSWER: Tang
[10] During this dynasty, Marco Polo paid a visit, and during the first part of it China was ruled by Genghis
Khan.
ANSWER: Yuan
17. Identify each of the following about some Hemingway short stories FTPE.
[10] After dropping off fish for Mrs. Packard, the protagonist of this work runs away with his Littless
because Evans and Porter are after him for shooting a buck.
ANSWER: The Last Good Country
[10] In this rather famous story, the main character tries to convince Ole Anderson to flee from the title hit
men who are coming to the café, but he fails.
ANSWER: The Killers
[10] Name the autobiographical character who appeared in more than a dozen short stories by Earnest
Hemingway, including The Last Good Country and The Killers.
ANSWER: Nick Adams (accept either name)
18. Given the name of a ruler of England, name the house from which he or she came FTPE.
[10] Queen Anne.
ANSWER: Stuart
[10] Richard I.
ANSWER: Plantagenet
[10] George VI.
ANSWER: Windsor (or Saxe-Coburg-Gotha)
19. Answer each of the following from logic FTP.
[10] In this method of reasoning, an adjoint to deduction, one draws a conclusion about a number of objects
by examining some finite number of them. It is useful for finding the general term of a chain of recursive
propositions.
ANSWER: induction (or inductive logic)
[10] This is a valid deductive argument moving from two premises to a conclusion. The categorical variety
is the most common type. They are useful for establishing the validity of a hypothesis in inductive logic.
ANSWER: syllogism
[10] This type of syllogism may be stated symbolically for propositions A and B as follows: “A implies B,
A, therefore B.” Its name is Latin for “way of putting” or “way of affirming.”
ANSWER: modus ponens
20. Answer each of the following about various religions’ afterlives FTP.
[10] In this dualistic ancient Persian religion founded by a namesake prophet, the afterlife begins with souls
walking across a bridge and either falling into a pit of ice or reaching the heaven of fire on the other side.
ANSWER: Zoroastrianism
[10] This original Jewish afterlife is described as the “the land of gloom and deep darkness.” The good and
wicked alike go here to sleep forever.
ANSWER: Sheol
[10] This religion, which associates heaven with the lotus, claims that everyone who believes in Allah’s
goes to heaven, but must go through hell in order to reach it.
ANSWER: Islam

