UIUC Earlybird 2006 - Round 3
(Tossups by UIUC Academic Buzzer Team)
1. As a youth he tried to flee his father’s territory with Lieutenant von Katte, but they were caught. He lost
his title of crown prince and Katte was executed in front of him. A gifted child, he preferred culture to
politics, and even wrote a flute concerto that is still performed today. This Hohenzollern collaborated with
Voltaire in the anonymously published Antimachiavell [ante-MACH-ee-uh-vell], an idealistic picture of a
ruler in opposition to the views of Machiavelli. After winning at the battles of Mollwitz and Chotusitz, he
secured his country’s control of Silesia. One of the enlightened despots, FTP, identify this Prussian ruler.
ANSWER: Frederick II or Frederick the Great (prompt on “Frederick”)
2. This being is sometimes depicted as Nataraja, the Cosmic Dancer. Sometimes joined with his mate as
Ardhanarisvara, this deity is worshiped for fertility in the form of the linga. This lord of Kailasa is the
father of Skanda and Ganesa with his consort, who is variously known as Uma, Sati, Parvati, Durga, Kali,
or Sakti. FTP, name this god who comprises the Trimurti with Brahma and Vishnu as the redeemer- and
destroyer-god of Hinduism.
ANSWER: Siva (or Siwa or Shiva)
3. This person’s early story “For Esmé – With Love and Squalor” relates the experiences of a U.S.
serviceman in England and was probably drawn from personal experience. This author wrote frequently of
a certain family, including in Raise High the Roof Beam, Carpenters; Nine Stories; and Seymour: An
Introduction. Seymour’s suicide is detailed in “A Perfect Day for Bananafish,” while Franny and Zooey
deals with younger members of the Glass family. FTP, name this author who is perhaps most famous for
his tale of the flight from Pencey Prep of Holden Caulfield, The Catcher in the Rye.
ANSWER: Jerome David Salinger
4. In 1536, Pedro de Mendoza founded a settlement that would become its capital, but in 1580 Juan de
Garay refounded it, and it officially became a colony under Hernando de Saavedra. Jose de Urquiza was
elected as its first president in 1853, and in 1930 President Hipolito Yrigoyen was deposed in a military
coup, and the military would also oust leaders in 1955 and 1976, but democracy was reestablished in 1983.
FTP, name this country famous for being a haven for ex-Nazis; a South American country which was
governed by Juan and Evita Peron.
ANSWER: Argentina
5. It has been chain-weighted since 1995. In the first quarter of 2006, the real version of it grew 5.6% in the
U.S. One way to calculate it is to use the national income accounts identity, which uses the net exports. It
does not take into account the existence of black markets or the value of volunteer work. It replaced GNP
in 1991 in the US as the main indicator of economic output. FTP, this quantity is the output of final goods
and services produced within the borders of a country.
ANSWER: gross domestic product
6. Some lesser sections of this work find the title character “at the Statue of Memnon,” “hunted by the
trolls,” and “by the Hut.” Created during a lull in a collaborative partnership with Bjornson, this musical
work was later re-cast into a ballet by Forrest and Wright. Many of this work’s non-vocal sections were
cribbed by the composer to make two suites: among these are “The Death of Åse;” “Solveig’s Song;”
“Anitra’s Dance;” and, of course, “In the Hall of the Mountain King.” For ten points, identify this suite of
incidental music for a play by Henrik Ibsen, the most notable work of Edvard Grieg.
ANSWER: Peer Gynt, incidental music, Op. 23 (accept either underlined part)
7. This sequence of reactions requires carbon fixation as its first step, which is accomplished by the action
of rubisco on CO2. Netting glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate, this cycle utilizes ATP and NADPH produced by
the photosystems and cytochrome complexes in the thylakoid membrane. FTP, name this biochemical cycle
that takes place in the chloroplasts of photosynthetic cells, comprises the dark reactions of photosynthesis,
and is named for biochemist Melvin.
ANSWER: Calvin-Benson cycle (prompt on “dark reactions” before it’s mentioned)

8. This man’s lesser-known works include The Elements of Law and Body, Mind, and Citizen. His
philosophy was marked by a secular justification for the state, as he was an ardent materialist. He believed
that men were in a constant battle against everything, and that the only way to restore peace and order was
to create a government, a sort of authoritarian social contract. FTP, name this British philosopher and
political theorist, a contemporary of Descartes, and the author of Leviathan.
ANSWER: Thomas Hobbes
9. One year later this man captured Salamanca and successfully besieged Saguntum. In 229 BCE, his sonin-law Hasdrubal the Fair replaced Hamilcar as commander of forces in Iberia, though he would assume
control himself after Hasdrubal’s murder. On his most famous journey, he won battles at Ticinus and
Trebia, and his forces killed Flaminius at Trasimene Lake, but he was crushed at the battle of Cannae. FTP,
name this famous Carthaginian general who crossed the Alps.
ANSWER: Hannibal Barca
10. In this work, the cloth at Matilda’s table has not been changed for three days, and she hates eating in
her shabby apartment and thinks of luxurious surroundings and priceless ornaments decorating graceful
furniture instead. She envies Jeanne, a very wealthy friend with whom she went to school. Matilda’s life
changes after the Commissioner Ball, for which she borrows the title object, for her loss of which she and
her husband pay dearly for ten years. For ten points, name this story about a forged piece of jewelry in a
story by Guy de Maupassant.
ANSWER: The Necklace (or La Parure)
11. Fighting here began with the Battle of Port Gibson and, on May 8, Sherman came with reinforcements
who fought at Raymond. There was an unusual break in the fighting when the Union generals took a two
hour break to bury their dead, which had become severely decayed and were giving an overwhelming odor
to the battle field. There were two failed assault attempts on May 18 and May 22 by the combined forces of
McClernand, McPherson, and Sherman. Grant switched tactics and finally won when the Confederates
surrendered on July 4, after 47 days of defending the city. FTP, name the Confederate fortress on the
Mississippi that was besieged by Ulysses S. Grant in 1863.
ANSWER: the Battle of Vicksburg
12. Two of this person’s works, “A Desire” and “A Recognition,” are addressed “To George Sand.” This
writer’s “The Best Thing in the World” claims that the title entity is “Something out of it, I think.” Matthew
Arnold claimed that this poet’s Aurora Leigh was the best poem in English, though her early collection
Sonnets from the Portuguese is probably better-known today. FTP, name this most notable Victorian
woman poet and wife of another notable poet, Robert Browning.
ANSWER: Elizabeth Barrett Browning (accept Elizabeth Barrett; prompt on “Browning”)
13. Iron (III) chloride can function as one of these even though it lacks a common ion because it is an
electron-pair acceptor, which fits Lewis definition of them. The archaic Arrhenius definition of these is
insufficient because it requires the compound in question be water-soluble. The Bronsted-Lowry definition
holds that these compounds are hydrogen ion donors. FTP, identify this type of chemical compound
members of which are generally corrosive to metals and react with bases to form water and salts.
ANSWER: acids
14. Roles of this person include Bloat in “Finding Nemo,” Vice President Murney in “The Pacifier,” and
Tony the auto mechanic on “Seinfeld.” In 1984, he became the first winner in the stand-up comedy
competition on “Star Search.” In 2006, this six foot, eight inch actor will be the male lead in a new sitcom,
“Till Death.” FTP, name this deep-voiced actor, winner of a 2005 Emmy for his portrayal of Robert
Barone in “Everybody Loves Raymond.”
ANSWER: Brad Garrett

15. For a given material it is equal to the geometric mean of the electric permittivity and the magnetic
permeability in the material. A complex version of this quantity can be defined for materials that absorb
light in addition to creating the namesake phenomenon. FTP, identify this property of a material defined as
the ratio of the speed of light in a vacuum to the speed of light in the medium and that is equal to about 1.33
for water.
ANSWER: the index of refraction (accept refraction index; prompt on “n”)
16. One of this Eastern European country’s founding fathers is a University of Illinois law professor who
helped write its 1994 Constitution. Bordered by Romania on the West and by Ukraine on all other sides, its
two major rivers are the Dniester and the Prut. The poorest nation in Europe, its 2001election put
Communists back in power for the first time since the 1991 collapse of the Soviet Union. FTP, name this
country with capital at Chisinau whose internet domain is dot MD.
ANSWER: Moldova
17. This person’s late mythological paintings for Phillip II are now mostly housed in the Prado. A notable
student of Giorgione, several of whose works he probably completed, this artist’s use of color is
characteristic of Venetian art, though he was not born in Venice. His Danae shows a woman reclining nude,
although in different versions she is accompanied by a maid and a cupid. FTP, name this Renaissance
Venetian who painted the Pesaro Madonna, The Assumption of the Virgin, Sacred and Profane Love and
the Venus of Urbino.
ANSWER: Titian (or Tiziano Vecellio or Tiziano Vecelli)
18. Pencil and Paper Ready. What is the area under the curve 1 over x squared from x equals 1 to x equals
infinity? This can be done if you first recall that the area under a curve can be computed as the integral of
the curve’s equation between the endpoints. Further note that the antiderivative of 1 over x squared happens
to be negative 1 over x. Placing in the limits of integration, the area is determined to be 1 minus 1 over b,
where b approaches upper limit. FTP, what is the limit of 1 minus 1 over b as b approaches infinity?
ANSWER: one
19. Originally associated with soil fertility, this being became a god of the morning and evening star before
his followers converted him to a representation of death and destruction. Driven into exile from his city of
Tula by the god Tezcatlipoca, his followers expected the return of this fair-skinned, bearded deity, resulting
in the people’s misconception of the 1519 appearance of conquistador Hernan Cortez. FTP, name this
Toltec and Aztec god, also known as the Plumed or Feathered Serpent.
ANSWER: Quetzalcoatl
20. A nephew of Franz Joseph, this person joined the army in 1883 and was made a general in 1896. His
relationship with a Bohemian noblewoman caused a rift in the family, and Wilhelm II, Tsar Nicholas II and
Pope Leo XIII all argued on his behalf so he could marry Sophie von Chotkovato. General Oskar Potiorek
invited him to watch troop maneuvers in the summer of 1914 but when news spread, several Serbian
nationalists plotted to kill him. FTP, name this Austrian leader assassinated by Gavrilo Princip.
ANSWER: Archduke Franz Ferdinand I
21. In the first scene of this play, the main character rejects offers from four tempters, while the title action
takes place in the second and final scene. The interlude is a Christmas Day sermon to an invisible
congregation and, after the title action, the four knights sent to perform it try to plead for forgiveness from
the audience. FTP, identify this T.S. Eliot play about the murder of Thomas a Becket.
ANSWER: Murder in the Cathedral
22. In this novel, Adam Trask falls in love with the novel’s female antagonist, Cathy Ames. Cathy gives
birth to two sons, Caleb and Aron, and then ditches her family. Caleb tells Aron the truth about what
happened to their mother and brings about Aron’s death, for which Adam never forgives Caleb. FTP,
identify this novel based on the story of Cain and Abel; a work by John Steinbeck.
ANSWER: East of Eden

UIUC Earlybird 2006 – Round 3
(Bonuses by UIUC Academic Buzzer Team)
1. Ujiji, Tanzania served as a famous meeting spot in October of 1871. FTPE:
[10] What Scottish explorer was presumably found at this spot?
ANSWER: Dr. David Livingstone
[10] Which reporter, sent by the New York Herald, found that great Scot?
ANSWER: Henry Morton Stanley
[10] Ujiji is on the shore of what major African lake?
ANSWER: Lake Tanganyika
2. Answer the following about The Merchant of Venice FTPE.
[10] This Jewish lender is angry at the city’s Christians, so he demands a pound of Antonio’s flesh.
ANSWER: Shylock
[10] Disguising herself as a law clerk, she saves Antonio from being skinned and marries Bassanio.
ANSWER: Portia
[10] Two other suitors, both princes, try to gain Portia’s hand by playing the casket game, but they both
pick wrong. Name either of the locations they are princes of.
ANSWER: Morocco or Aragon
3. Name the modern architects from the buildings FTPE.
[10] Seagram Building, Farnsworth House
ANSWER: Ludwig Mies van der Rohe
[10] Villa Savoy, Unite d’Habitation
ANSWER: Le Corbusier (Charles-Édouard Jeanneret)
[10] Salk Institute, Kimball Art Museum
ANSWER: Louis Kahn
4. Answer the following about the history of Korea FTPE.
[10] In 1390, the ruler of the Yi Dynasty moved the capital to Hanyang-gun, better known as this city.
ANSWER: Seoul
[10] After the end of the Korean War, the peninsula was divided into north and south sections by this line
of latitude.
ANSWER: the 38th Parallel (accept things like 38 N latitude, etc.)
[10] In 1961, this general toppled the South Korean civilian government and was elected President after
declaring martial law.
ANSWER: Park Chung Hee
5. Answer each of the following about a certain dance company for ten points.
[10] Springing from the St. Petersburg Imperial Ballet in 1909 in Paris, this most famous ballet company
made good use of the choreographic talents of Michel Fokine for many years.
ANSWER: Ballets Russes [roos]
[10] This impresario founded the Ballets Russes.
ANSWER: Sergey Pavlovich Diaghilev [dee-AH-guh-lehv]
[10] In 1912, the Ballets Russes performed this French Impressionist’s only ballet, Daphnis and Chloe. His
most notable piece and, sometimes, nickname is the Boléro.
ANSWER: Joseph-Maurice Ravel

6. Answer the following about an author and some of his works FTPE.
[10] This archetypically modern Anglo-Irish author is responsible for such works as Ulysses and A Portrait
of the Artist as a Young Man.
ANSWER: James Aloysius Joyce
[10] This autobiographical character lives in a tower with Buck Mulligan in Ulysses and is the protagonist
of A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man, which was originally titled after him.
ANSWER: Stephen Dedalus (accept either name or Stephen Hero)
[10] This remarkable accessible early short story collection by Joyce contains such classics as “Ivy Day in
the Committee Room,” “Araby,” “Counterparts,” “Clay,” and “The Dead.”
ANSWER: Dubliners
7. Consider the periodic function f of x equals 2 times cosine of quantity four x minus 2. FTPE:
[10] This is the period of the function.
ANSWER: pi over 2 (or pi halves)
[10] This is the phase shift.
ANSWER: one half (to the right)
[10] This is the amplitude of the function.
ANSWER: two
8. Identify the following concerning the Wars of the Roses FTPE.
[10] All or nothing, name the two houses that fought each other in the Wars of the Roses.
ANSWERS: Lancaster and York (accept in either order)
[10] Richard III of York was killed at this August 22, 1485 battle.
ANSWER: Battle of Bosworth Field
[10] At the end of the war, this first Tudor monarch was crowned king.
ANSWER: Henry VII
9. Answer each of the following about enzymes for ten points.
[10] As enzymes are not consumed in their corresponding reactions, they serve this function because they
facilitating an organic reaction by lowering its activation energy.
ANSWER: catalysts (or catalysis)
[10] This is the location on an enzyme protein to which the enzyme’s substrate binds. An enzyme’s
mechanism of catalysis is determined by the shape of this.
ANSWER: active site
[10] This is a chemical that lowers the activity of an enzyme. Competitive ones prevent a substrate from
binding to an enzyme by filling-up its active site, while alosteric ones change an enzyme’s shape.
ANSWER: inhibitor
10. Identify the following about a certain school of philosophy FTPE.
[10] Focusing on the meaning of being, this school of philosophy focuses on the importance of human
choice and opposes rationalism.
ANSWER: existentialism (or existential philosophy)
[10] This existentialist declined the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1964.
ANSWER: Jean-Paul Sartre
[10] This founder of existentialism criticized Hegelianism and dealt frequently with religion and faith, as in
1843’s Fear and Trembling.
ANSWER: Soren Kierkegaard

11. Identify these electromagnetic laws FTPE.
[10] This law states that the induced current will always produce a magnetic field that opposes the change
that produced the current.
ANSWER: Lenz’s Law
[10] One of Maxwell’s equations, this law states that the line integral of the induced electric field is equal
to the negative rate of change of the magnetic flux.
ANSWER: Faraday’s Law of Induction
[10] Both of the above laws deal with electromagnetic induction. This is the SI unit of induction.
ANSWER: the henry
12. Name these characters from Invisible Man.
[10] The narrator accidentally takes him to the Golden Day for a glass of restorative whiskey after they
both hear the story of Jim Trueblood and his daughter.
ANSWER: Mr. Norton
[10] He makes a boiler explode at Liberty Paints, landing the narrator in the hospital. He also created the
slogan for the company: “If it’s Optic White, It’s the Right White.”
ANSWER: Lucius Brockway (accept either name)
[10] The Brotherhood concedes Harlem to this man, who later incites the area into rioting. He throws a
spear at the narrator, and the narrator throws it back.
ANSWER: Ras the Destroyer
13. Most of the characters in the HBO series Rome are based on actual historical figures. FTPE name the
person from clues from the series and actual history.
[10] He is an extremely precocious youth who is the apple of his mother Atia’s eye. He became Julius
Caesar’s heir at the age of 18 and became the first emperor.
ANSWER: Caesar Augustus (accept Gaius Julius Caesar Octavianus)
[10] His marriage to his third wife Fulvia is ignored in the series, where is Atia’s lover. He and Cleopatra
lost to Octavian at the Battle of Actium.
ANSWER: Marcus Antonius
[10] She sleeps with her brother and Servilia in the series, but in real life she was a matron of upstanding
morals who was married to Mark Anthony and was upheld as the ideal of feminine behavior by her brother.
ANSWER: Octavia Minor
14. Name the economist from clues FTPE.
[10] The originator of much modern political and economic policy, this theorist’s General Theory of
Employment, Interest, and Money made heavy use of the concept of aggregate demand.
ANSWER: John Maynard Keynes
[10] This British economist’s Principles of Political Economy and Taxation explains his labor theory of
value, He is one of the most prominent classical economists.
ANSWER: David Ricardo
[10] This prominent monetarist and member of the Chicago school won the Nobel in 1976. His A Monetary
History of the United States, 1867-1960 partially blamed the Great Depression on the Federal Reserve’s
regulation of the money supply.
ANSWER: Milton Friedman
15. Answer the following from Buddhism FTPE.
[10] The son of Maya, this Shakya prince became the Buddha after many years of meditation under a bo
tree.
ANSWER: Siddhartha Gautama (or Siddhatta Gotama; accept either underlined name; accept names in
either order)
[10] Siddhartha Gautama achieved enlightenment by realizing this quaternity of insights. The first is that to
exist is to suffer, while the last is that the Eightfold Way is the path to cease suffering.
ANSWER: the Four Noble Truths (or cattari-ariya-saccani or catvari-arya-satyani)
[10] The Buddha first delineated the Four Noble Truths in a so-called sermon delivered at this location,
which is in modern-day Sarnath, Uttar Pradesh, India.
ANSWER: Deer Park

16. Answer the following about a playwright and his works FTPE.
[10] This American author began his career with Bound East for Cardiff and went on to create such classics
as Long Day’s Journey into Night, The Emperor Jones, and The Iceman Cometh.
ANSWER: Eugene Gladstone O’Neill
[10] In this O’Neill trilogy, a re-telling of the Orestia, Lavinia Manon and her brother enact revenge on
Adam Brant and others for the murder of their father, a Civil War general.
ANSWER: Mourning Becomes Electra (accept Homecoming, The Hunted, and The Haunted)
[10] In this early O’Neill tragedy, Abbie Putnam weds Ephrian Cabot, but carries-on an affair with his son
Eben. This affair leads to a child, whom she murders.
ANSWER: Desire Under the Elms
17. Identify these gas laws FTPE.
[10] This law states that, for an ideal gas, the pressure is inversely related to the volume.
ANSWER: Boyle’s Law
[10] This law states that, for an ideal gas, the number of moles of gas present varies directly with the
volume.
ANSWER: Avogadro’s Law
[10] According to this law, pressure and temperature are directly proportional for an ideal gas.
ANSWER: Law of Gay-Lussac [GHEE-loo-SAWK]
18. Answer the following about James Monroe FTPE.
[10] Due to the lack of partisan politics, this four-word phrase is used to describe Monroe’s presidency.
ANSWER: the Era of Good Feelings
[10] Monroe served as a minister to this European nation, in which capacity he re-negotiated the Treaty of
San Ildefonso for the United States’ right of deposit at New Orleans
ANSWER: France
[10] He supported the colonization of freed slaves, and for his support, this country’s capital was named for
him.
ANSWER: Liberia
19. Given the Roman name, give the Greek counterpart FTPE.
[10] Pluto.
ANSWER: Hades
[10] Minerva.
ANSWER: Athena
[10] Vesta.
ANSWER: Hestia
20. Given a vice president, name the President he served under, FTPE.
[10] Richard Nixon.
ANSWER: Dwight David Eisenhower
[10] Charles Dawes.
ANSWER: Calvin Coolidge
[10] Schuyler Colfax.
ANSWER: Ulysses S. Grant

21. Name these things from The Unbearable Lightness of Being, FTPE.
[10] This most notable of Czech novelists and son of a noted musicologist wrote The Unbearable Lightness
of Being as well as The Book of Laughter and Forgetting.
ANSWER: Milan Kundera
[10] This main character of The Unbearable Lightness of Being is a doctor who becomes a window washer
in Prague. He loves his wife, but has affairs with Sabina and other women. He dies in a truck accident.
ANSWER: Tomas
[10] Tomas gave his wife a dog named after a character in this Tolstoy work, in which the titular unhappy
woman jumps in front of a train in the end.
ANSWER: Anna Karanina

