Cal Classic IV
Packet by Mike Usher, Jason Hong, Emil Thomas Chuck, and Gaius Stem.
Tossups
1. His principle states that the "inertia of any body is determined by the distribution of the distant mass in
the universe." In other words, objects have inertia only because the rest of the mass of the universe causes
them to possess it. His greatest influence was in philosophy, where he helped free Einstein from the
absoluteness of Newtonian space-time. FTP, who is this Austrian physicist and philosopher whose name is
associated with the speed of sound and a Gillette razor?
Answer: Ernst Mach
2. The principle behind this policy was reaffirmed by the Nine-Power treaty of 1922, but it was rendered
meaningless as a result of the end of a civil war in 1949. Motivated partly by American textile
manufacturers' need for a matket for their cheap cotton goods after the Spanish-American War, one of its
stipulations was that imperial powers should grant free access to treaty ports. FTP, name this policy which
sought equal access to trading rights in China at the tum of the century, associated with U. S. Secretary of
State John Hay.
Answer: Open Door policy
3. Mozart said of him, "There is no one who can do it all-- to joke and to terrify, to evoke laughter and
profound sentiment -- and all equally well, except [him]." His musical style was an inspiration for a work
composed over 100 years after his death, Prokofiev's Classical Symphony. For ten points, name this
prolific Austrian composer, regarded as father of the string quartet, who composed 104 symphonies,
including the London Symphonies.
Answer: Franz Joseph Haydn
4. He seems to have a fateful fascination with the United States. In 1940, at 14, he sent a letter to FDR
asking for a $10 bill, writing "I have not seen a ten dollars bill green american and I would like to have
one." Fifteen years later, he barnstormed the eastern United States raising money to launch his revolution.
Returning triumphant in April 1959, he told "Meet the Press" that "I'm not interested in staying in power
one minute more than necessary." FTP, who is this leader of Cuba?
Answer: Fidel Castro
5. He was initially modeled on and named after a martyred leader of the Lollards named John Oldcastle,
but after Oldcastle's descendants protested, he was renamed after a career soldier who had established a
reputation for cowardice in the latter part of the Hundred Years' War. In his first appearance, he acts as a
father figure but in later plays is rejected, then dies, only to reappear in a fourth play about his romantic
misadventures. FTP, name this character in Henry IV: Parts 1 and 2 and Henry V, the protagonist of The
Merry Wives of Windsor.
Answer: Sir John Falstaff
6. This woman bore ten children in spite of her husband's attachment to his mistress, Diane de Poitiers.
Her moderate influence on religious issues was seen in her Edicts of Amboise and Romorantin, the latter of
which officially detached faith from allegiance. On the death of her son Francis II in 1560, she gained the
regency for another of her sons, Charles IX. FTP, name this wife of French king Henry II and daughter of
Lorenzo de Medici.
Answer: Catherine de Medici
7. To enliven her otherwise dull and sheltered life, she kept ajoumal in code, which was deciphered and
published by Leslie Linder in 1966. She put most of her energies into conservation, sheep farming, and the
Fabian socialist movement, but is best known for her children's stories. For 10 points, who is this writer and
illustrator of The Tale ofPeter Rabbit?
Answer: Beatrix Potter Webb

8. The concept was thought to have been introduced by the Nonnans following the invasion of 1066 and
was an important factor in the establishment of common law. For ten points, name this judicial institution
that is protected by the 7th Amendment to the Constitution and is the subject of the Reginald Rose nove!,
Twelve Angry Men.
Answer: Trial by i!!o:. (accept petit jwy but not grand jUlY)
9. He moved to Paris in 1823, obtained a clerkship, and began to write, becoming famous at age 27 with his
play Henri III. With his purpose being to put the history of France into novels, he wrote The Black Tulip, as
well as spending two years in exile in Brussels, and helping Garibaldi in Italy. For 10 points, identify this
author of The Count ofMonte Cristo and The 3 Musketeers.
Answer: Alexandre Dumas, pere
10. The fifth step of this biological pathway results in the fonnation of succinic acid and the production of
the molecule guanosine triphosophate. Its final step is the combination of oxaloacetic acid with Acetyl
CoA, and, taking place in the mitochondrial matrix, the process produces FADH2, NADH, carbon dioxide,
and ATP. FTP, name this cyclical process in cellular respiration which follows glycolosis, discovered by
Hans Krebs.
Answer: Citric Acid cycle or Tricarboxylic acid cycle (accept Krebs cycle before end of question)
11. Judge John M. Woolsey allowed this book into the U.S. in 1933, deciding that the novel's alleged
obscenity could be condoned on the grounds that the author's "locale was Celtic and his season Spring." In
one chapter, the language goes through stages from Anglo-Saxon to modem English, while another chapter
is laden with references to wind and is entitled Aeolus. FTP, name this novel set on June 16, 1904, whose
characters include Leopold and Molly Bloom, written by James Joyce.
Answer: Ulysses
12. Like polyethylene, this polymer is linearly structured, but instead of CH2 its repeating unit is CF 2 . Its
full name is polytetrafluoroethylene, and since it retains its properties at temperatures up to 500 degrees it
is well-suited for its use in wires, cables, motors, and generators. FTP, identify this non-adhesive plastic,
sometimes replaced by Silver Stone in frying pans.
Answer: Teflon (accept polytetrafiuoroethylene on an early buzz)
13. This city's nicknames range from The White City of the Americas to The Athens of America to The
Cradle of Liberty. Known as Choaque-Chaca by indiginous Indians, La Plata to the conquistadors, and
Chiquisaca by nationalists, its usual name honors the chief lieutenant of Simon Bolivar. FTP, name this
city southeast of La Paz which is the legal capital of Bolivia.
Answer: Sucre
14. At a one hundred mile square field known as Vigrid, two Jotuns will swallow the sun and moon and
Nidhug will plunge into the void of Ginnungap. Tyr and Garm will kill each other as Heimdall blows the
full blast on the Gjaller Hom. Yggdrasil will crack and crumble as the heroes rush out of Valhalla. For 10
points, what is this great fmal battle between the gods and the giants in Norse mythology?
Answer: Ragnarok
15. A 1687 battle between Venetians and Turks destroyed the center of this building, which had been
converted into a mosque in 1460, having spent the previous 1000 years as a Christian church. It held a
great gold and ivory statue completed in 438 B.C., and many of its other sculptures were removed by Lord
Elgin in the 19th century. FTP, name this building built under the supervision of Phidias as a temple to
- - - .- .
\
Athena the Virgin, located on the Acropolis.

Answer: Parthenon

\''\ C

16. In the 1920's he studied various body secretions and their effects on bacteria, and discovered a
bacteriolytic enzyme that is present in serum, saliva, and tears, namely lysozyme. After accidentally
leaving a dish of staphylococcus bacteria uncovered, he noticed certain clear areas in the culture, which he
attributed to contamination by a mold. For 10 points, who is this cowinner of the 1945 Nobel Prize for
physiology or medicine for his discovery of Penicillin?

Answer: Alexander Fleming
17. His father's background was Swiss and his mother's Basque, but he was brought up in Paris. He failed
to win the Prix de Rome five times and left the Conservatoire to continue his life as a freelance musician.
Many of his works show his fascination for things temporally or geographically distant, such as Valses
nobles et sentiment ales, Sheherazade, and Daphnis et Chloe. For 10 points, who is this French
Impressionist composer of Bolero?
Answer: Maurice Ravel

19. This book identifies hunting, pastoralism, feudalism, and commercial interdependence as the four
stages of social organization and argues that because the feudal stage has ended, the government should
stop constraining free enterprise. Its most famous phrase was used in its author's previous book, The
Theory ofMoral Sentiments, published in 1759. FTP,namethis book which initiated classical British
economics with its notion of the "invisible hand," puclished in 1776 by Adam Smith.
Answer: An Inquiry to the Nature and Causes ofthe Wealth of Nations
20. This term had been used at least as early as the 1840s to describe a worthless farm animal, but it was
later applied to a sector of the population which probably amounted to 20% of the electorate. In the deep
south, most such people were members of the planter-merchant aristocracy, while further north they tended
to behill-countty farmers who had sympathized with the Union during the war. FTP, give this term, used
to denote a southerner who supported Republican Reconstruction policies, complementing carpetbaggers
from the north.
Answer: Scalawag
21. It was written between the years 1833 and 1850 and published anyonymously in 1850. Consisting of
131 sections, a prologue, and an epilogue, this chiefly elegiac work reflects the Victorian struggle to
reconcile traditional religious faith with the emerging theories of evolution and modem geology. For 10
points, what is this poem by Alfred, Lord Tennyson, written in mourning over the death of his close friend
Arthur Henry Hallam?
Answer: "In Memoriam"
22. As a congressman during the Civil War, he actively opposed President Lincoln's suspension of habeas
corpus, and after the war he proposed the "Ohio idea," in which Civil War bonds would be redeemed for
paper currency instead of gold, a proposal which alienated eastern Democrats and cost him the 1868
presidential nomination. FTP, name this man, George McClellan's running mate in 1864, whose name is
most famously attached to an 1883 act which reformed the civil service system.
Answer: George Hunt Pendleton
23. Part of the name of this family of elements derives from the medieval term for substances insoluble in
water and unchanged by fire. They are all grayish white in color and are malleable, and due to their low
e1ectronegativity never occur as pure metals in nature; four of them were first isolated in 1808 by Davy.
FTP, name this family including strontium, radium and barium, whose elements have full s subshells and
comprise group II-A of the periodic table.
Answer: Alkaline-earth metals (prompt on "Group II-A"; do not accept or prompt on "alkali
metals")

Cal Classic IV
Packet by Mike Usher, Jason Hong, Emil Thomas Chuck, and Gaius Stem.
Bonuses
1. Identify the following ecumenical councils, FTPE:
a) The council which met intermittently from 1545 to 1563 and is associated with the Counter-reformation.
Answer: Council of Trent
b) The first ecumenical council, called by Constantine I, which condemned Arianism.
Answer: Council of Nicaea
c) The council convoked by Pius IX which asserted papal infallibility.
Answer: First Vatican council (accept Vatican I)
2. Identify the following photographers, FTPE:
a) The 19th centmy British portrait photographer known for her renderings of female beauty, as in her
protraits of "Ellen Terry" and "Mrs. Herbert Duckworth."
Answer: Julia Margaret Cameron
b) The German-born photojournalist who covered the rise of Hitler and who in 1937 came to the U.S.,
becoming the chief photographer for Lifo magazine. He is most famous for the picture of a sailor kissing a
nurse in Times Square on V-J Day.
Answer: Alfred Eisenstaedt
c) The early-20th century American photographer best known for a 400-print series of his wife, Georgia
Q'Keeffe.
Answer: Alfred Stieglitz
3. Identify the following works of Jane Austen, FTPE:
a) The novel, which inspired the movie Clueless, about a woman who marries George Knightley after a
series of failed attempts at matchmaking.
Answer: Emma
,/\0
b) The novel in which, seven years after being unable to win the hand of Anne Elliot due to her..P_l!I:.~!L .'
snobbery, Frederick Wentworth returns from the Napoleonic Wars with enough money and status to be an
eligible suitor.
Answer: Persuasion
c) The 1811 work which contrasts the reaction of two sisters, Elinor and Marianne Dashwood, to the
desertions of their suitors, Edward Ferrars and John Willoughby.
Answer: Sense and Sensibility
4. Answer the following about Zoroastrianism for ten points each.
a) Name the sacred book of Zoroastrianism
Answer: Zend Avesta
b) Name the leader of the good spirits.
Answer: Ahura Mazda
c) Name the leader of the evil spirits
Answer: Ahriman
5. Identify the following moons of the solar system, for the stated number of points:
a) FFP, Jupiter's largest moon, also the largest moon in the solar system.
Answer: Ganymede
b) FFP, The innermost of Jupiter's four Galilean moons, known for its high volcanic activity.
Answer: 10
c) FTP, Uranus' largest moon.
Answer: Titania
d) FTP, the smaller of Mars' two moons.
Answer: Deimos
6. Identify the following Greek authors from works, FFP each:

a) Theogony, Works and Days
Answer: Hesiod
b) Lysistrata, Clouds
Answer: Aristophanes
c) The Suppliant Women, the Oresteia trilogy
Answer: Aeschylus
d) Bacchae, Medea
Answer: Euripides
e) The "Philippics," speeches delivered against Philip II of Macedon
Answer: Demosthenes
f) The Idylls
Answer: Theocritus

7. Identify the following books by muckrakers, FTPE:
a) Ida Tarbell's 1904 book, known as one of the most thorough accounts of the rise of a business
monopoly.
Answer: HistoO' ofthe Standard Oil Company
b) Upton Sinclair's 1906 novel about the meatpacking industry.
Answer: The Jun'lle
c) Lincoln Steffens' 190ยง.work about corrupt city and state politics.
Answer: The Shame ofthe Cities
8. Given the name of an ion, give its chemical formula and charge, FFP per answer:
a) nitrate
Answers: N0,l, minus 1
b) hydronium
Answer: fuQ, plus 1
c) permanganate
Answers: MnO~, minus 1
9. Identify the following works of Beethoven, FTP each:
a) His only opera.
Answer: Fidelio
b) His last symphony.
Answer: Symphony Number 2. in D minor or 9th symphony or Choral symphony
c) The alternate name for his third symphony.
Answer: Eroica
10. Answer the following about the second largest island in the world, for the stated number of points:
a) FFP, name it. It might help to know that it ranks in size between Greenland and Borneo.
Answer: New Guinea
b) FFP, all or nothing, name both countries which control territory on New Guinea.
Answer: Indonesia, Papua New Guinea
c) FTP, give the name for the western half of New Guinea, which is controlled by Indonesia.
Answer: Irian Jaya
d) FTP, name the country responsible for the administration of what became Papua New Guinea from 1921
until 1975.
Answer: Australia
11. Identify the following relating to Thirty Years' War, FTP each:
a) The 1618 event in what is now the Czech Republic in which two imperial regents were thrown from a
window, signalling the beginning of the Bohemian revolt against Habsburg rule which started the war.
Answer: Defenestration of Prague
b) The Swedish king who fought on the side of the Protestants until being killed at the 1632 Battle of
Lutzen.
Answer: Gustavus II Adolphus (accept Gustavus Adolphus)

c) The 1648 treaty which ended the war.
Answer: Peace of Westphalia
12. Identify the following kinds of cells involved in immune response, FTP each:
a) The cells, whose types include "killer" and "helper," which originate in the thymus and provide cellmediated immunity by directly attacking invading antigens.
Answer: I cells (or I lymphocytes)
b) The lymphocytes which make and secrete antibodies, thus providing humoral immunity.
Answer: I2 cells (or I2lymphocytes)
c) The large, slow-moving cells which provide non-specific immunity by engulfing and digesting antibodyantigen complexes.
Answer: Macrophages
13. Identify the American novel from characters, for ten points each:
a) Roger Chillingworth, Arthur Dimmesdale
Answer: The Scarlet Letter
b) Judge Miller, Perrault, Buck
Answer: The Call oUlle Wild
c) Henry Fleming, Jim Conklin
Answer: Red Bad~e ofCoura~e
14. Come sail away by answering these questions related to the mythological underworld River Styx, FTP
each:
a) You pay this ferryman a coin for taking your soul across Styx and Acheron.
Answer: Charon
b) In the works of Hesiod, this Greek goddess of the rainbow was charged with carrying water from the
River Styx whenever the gods had to take a solemn oath.
Answer: Iris
c) In Dante's Inferno, as one descends through the depths of hell, this fIre-stream is the fIrst river one
would cross after crossing Acheron and Styx.
Answer: Phlegethon
15. Identify the following terms from grammar, FTPE:
a) A "verbal noun"-in English usually an -i-n-g form-which allows a verb construction to be used after a
preposition.
Answer: Gerund
b) The one-word term for the verb tense conjugated in English by the word "had" followed by a past
participle.
Answer: Pluperfect
c) The case used in Latin to denote possession or to denote an object reciprocally sharing in an action or
receiving an action.
Answer: Dative
16. Answer the following about the constitutional convention, FTP each:
a) Name the only state which did not send any delegates.
Answer: Rhode Island
b) Name the plan, which is named after a state, which would have established a bicameral legislature with
representation based on popUlation.
Answer: Virginia Plan
c) Name the man who proposed the Virginia plan, who later served as Attorney General and Secretary of
State under Washington.
Amswer: Edmund Randolph
17. Shakespeare, Marlowe, both, or neither. Given a literary work, tell whether it was written by the Bard,
Marlowe, both, or neither, with a fIve point bonus for all correct:
Answer: Shakespeare
a) Titus Andronicus

b) Edward II
c) Volpone, or the Fox
d) Henry VIII
e) Vortigem

Answer: Marlowe
Answer: neither
Answer: Shakespeare
Answer: neither

18. Name these tenns from chemistry for 10 points each.
a) This quantity, usually denoted by H, is equal to the internal energy of a substance plus the product of
pressure times volume. The change in this quantity in a chemical reaction is equal to the heat absorbed in
the reaction
Answer: Enthalpy
b) It is a solution of salts that maintains a constant pH despite small amounts of acid and base placed in it.
Answer: Buffer
c) Liquids that can be easily vaporized, like gasoline or alcohol, are characterized using this tenn.
Answer: Volatility or volatile
19. Fear not for phobias are kind. Name these phobias from their descriptions for 10 points each.
a) Fear of heights
Answer: Acrophobia
b) Fear of reptiles
Answer: Herpetophobia
c) Fear of open spaces
Answer: Agoraphobia
20. Answer these questions about 17th century England, FTPE:
a) This leader of the New Model Anny was responsible for the victoI}' of the Rounheads in the English
Civil War. He ruled England until his death in 1658 as Lord Protector.
Answer: Oliver Cromwell
b) Proclaimed king of England 11 years before his coronation, this Stuart presided over the Restoration, a
period famous for its literary talents. His last words were, "Let not poor Nellie starve."
Answer: Charles II
c) Secretly converted to Catholicism, this religiously tolerant king lost his throne when he made public his
plan to raise the newborn crown prince Catholic. The Glorious Revolution followed.
Answer: James II
21. 30-20-10. Name the artist.
30: Training under William Bouguereau, he met Albert Marquet, with whom he exhibited works at the
1905 Salon d'Automne.
20: Throughout his career, he fused color and line, such as in the works Dance, Music, and Odalisques.
10: He was considered the leader of the Fauvists.
Answer: Henri Matisse

a
aa
a
a
a
a
a
aa

