Cal Classic IV
Packet by Mike Usher, Jason Hong, and Emil Thomas Chuck
Tossups
1. The atmospheric concentration of this gas is now about 300 parts per million, having increased over the
past few decades. Its weakly acidic aqueous solution is called carbonic acid. Easily liquefied by
compression and cooling, it is a raw material for photosynthesis. FTP, what is this linear triatomic
compound that provides the sparkle in carbonated beverages?
Answer: Carbon Dioxide
2. One of his earlier novels, Roderick Hudson , dealt with an American sculptor in Italy and coincided with
the beginning of his own expatriation. Americans in Europe figured in many of his early works, and he
earned his reputation for his stories of "self-made" American women who insist on American standards in
European society, such as the 1878 WOlX, Daisy Mi //er. FTP, name this realist whose attention shifted to
social reformers in The Bostonians and who later wrote The Ambassadors and The Tum of the Screw.
Answer: Henry James
3. Until around the 1700s, this instrument was refered to as the "sackbut." The tenor, the most common, is
tuned to B-flat, but the orchestral versions have a coil of extra tubing in the loop of the bell, making it
possible to tune the instrument to F. FTP, namethis brass instrument recognized for its characteristic slide.
Answer: Trombone
4. The governments of over 100 different countries employ this in some form, although the way it is
determined varies widely. In Mexico, it is only determined for Mexico City, while in the UK all
households are covered except for those headed by a pensioner or someone with an income above a certain
amount. Interpretation of it is complicated by the fact that the particular goods that people buy change over
time. FTP, name this economic indicator used to measure cost of living.
Answer: Qonsumer Erice Index
5. It is a musical texture common in the Webern and post-Webern styles, in which instruments tend to play
only one to three notes at a time, and the longer melodic lines are made from these constantly changing
instrumental colors. FTP, what is this term which also refers to the painting technique of Georges Seurat,
who used dots of color to build of textures?
Answer: pointillism
6. A dream regarding his birth was interpreted as an evil portent, and he was consequently expelled from
his family when he was an infant. Exposed and left to die, he was raised as ,a shepherd, unknown to his
parents. As a young man, he entered a boxing contest at a Troj an festival and defeated Priam's other sons.
After his identity was revealed, he was received home again by Priam. FTP, name this man who caused the
siege of Troy by abducting Helen.
Answer: Paris
7. Scientists have genetically manipUlated this plant to produce effective human antibodies against herpes
viruses, and have shown that monkeys and rats with diets with high amounts of protein from this plant are
better protected from cancer and pain. For ten points, name this plant better known as the source of tofu.
Answer: Soy bean
8. This mountain has three peaks, including Liberty Cap and Point Success, covers 100 square miles, and is
surrounded by the largest single-mountain glacier system in the continental U.S.. Its summit was first
sighted by George Vancouver in 1792 and rises 14,410 feet above sea level, making it the second highest
mountain in the continental U.S .. FTP, name this mountain 40 miles from Tacoma, Washington, which
shares its name with a Prince of Monaco.
Answer: Mount Rainier

9. This category of organisms includes the ciliata, which are used to gauge water pollution levels; the
foraminifera, many of which are useful as index fossils; and the dinoflagellates, which cause red tide; as
well as slime molds and green algae. Genera in this category include Plasmodium, which causes malaria,
and the photosynthetic heterotroph, Euglena. FTP, name this kingdom, whose members generally have
nothing in common except that they are eukaryotes that are not animals, plants, or fungi.
Answer: Protista (accept Protoctista)
10. Matthew Arnold first used this word in its modem sense by adapting it from a German term applied by
the university students to the townspeople, meaning "outsiders." For 10 points, what is this term referring
to ignorant, ill-behaved persons lacking in culture or artistic appreciation, who in the Old Testament were
inveterate enemies of the Israelites that fought against Samson and David?
Answer: Philistines
11. Its main theme is the refmed life of the bourgeoisie, who combine an open-minded attitude toward
behavior with a respect for convention in such stories as "A Garden in January," "The Eaten Heart,"
"Calandrino and the Heliotrope," and "Titus and Gisippus." In the course of a fortnight, each character has
a turn as king or queen over the others, and it is set in a countryside to which the characters fled from the
plague. FTP, name this work consisting of 100 stories, written in about 1350 by Giovanni Bocaccio.
Answer: The Decameron (II Decamerone)
12. He was particularly offended with the preamble "We the people," asking "Who authorized them to
speak the language of We the people?" He was fIrst a failure as a planter and storekeeper, but gained
success as a lawyer and politician. Although this Virginian was elected to the Constitutional Convention in
1787, he refused to serve. For 10 points, who was this fIve time governor of Virginia, best known for a
speech at an extralegal session of the Virginia Assembly in March 1775 in which he said, "Give me liberty
or give me death"?
Answer: Patrick &my
13. A native of Chateauroux, he attended the French National Popular Theater as an acting student free of
charge, debuting in the Albert Camus play Caligula. For ten points, name this popular French movie actor
who starred in Jean de Florette, Genninal, Cyrano de Bergerac, and Green Card.
Answer: Gerard Depardieu
14. To the north of it lies a sea, and the Qattara Depression in the south, a salt marsh below sea level.
General Auchinleck took over personal command on June 23, and successfully defended the British lines
against German and Italian forces. Later that same year, Lieutenant-General Montgomery was put in charge
of the Eighth Army and foiled a second attempt to break through the British lines. FTP where did these
1942 battles take place, that protected Egypt from the Axis forces?
Answer: EI Alamein
15. This play features a Memphis lawyer named Gooper, his wife Mae and their fIve kids who wish to
inherit Mae's father's 28,000 acre estate once he dies. In the foreground is a tormented ex-football star still
haunted by the suicide of his best friend Skipper. For ten points, name this Pulitzer-prize winning play
about the dysfunctional Pollitt family featuring Brick, his wife Maggie, and his father Big Daddy, written
by Tenessee Williams.
Answer: Cat on a Hot Tin Roof
16. He held the throne for 46 years, having served as governor fIrst of Kaffa and later of Manisa before his
accession at the age of 25. Known for his sense of justice, like the Greek ruler Solon 2000 years earlier, he
was called the "Lawgiver," and culture fluorished under his reign thanks in part to the poet Baki and the
architect Sinan. His military exploits gained the most attention, though, as after defeating Belgrade,
Rhodes, and Hungary he conquered Iraq and used an expanded navy to take Tripoli. FTP, name this son of
Selim I who served as sultan from 1520-1566.
Answer: Suleiman I (accept "Suleiman the MagnifIcent")

17. He avenges the death of his father by killing King Pellinore, kills Sir Lamerok, who is the lover of his
mother, and kills his cousin Sir Uwayne, who is the son of Morgan Le Fay. However, when Sir Lancelot
unwittingly kills his youngest brother, Sir Gareth, he swears revenge. FTP who is this knight of the Round
Table also featured in a story with the Green Knight?
Answer: Sir Gawain
18. In the work Tales ofa Grandfather, Sir Walter Scott tells us that it has always been deemed a foul
crime in Scotland for anyone of this name to harm a spider. This is because a leader with this name was
said to have watched a spider fail six times to fix its web on a beam in the ceiling, similar to how the leader
had failed six times to defeat the English. For 10 points, who is this Scottish leader that succeeded in his
seventh try, becoming a Scottish national hero at the Battle of Bannockburn, nine years after the death of
William Wallace?
Answer: Robert the Bruce
19. He became the brother-in-law of Francis Scott Key in 1806 and was a Federalist until 1812. After a
term in the Maryland State Senate, he fought vigorously against the Bank of the United States as Attorney
General under Jackson. In spite of opposition from Clay, Calhoun, and Webster, he was appointed to the
Supreme Court in 1836, and his decisions included Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge, Ableman v.
Booth, and ex parte Merryman. FTP, name this fifth Chief Justice, famous for his opinion in the Dred
Scott case.
Answer: Roger Taney (TAH-knee)
20. In its most general form, the equation for this scientific law reads, "J equals sigma times E," where
sigma is a proportionality constant known as the conductance. Using a complex number called the
impedance allows the more familiar form of the law to hold in both alternating and direct current circuits.
FTP, name this law relating the current and voltage in a circuit, most familiar in the form, "V equals I times
R."
Answer: Ohm's Law
21 . This art movement was inspired by van Gogh's statement that instead of trying to represent his subject
realistically, he uses color arbitrarily to express himself more powerfully. It received its name when an art
critic remarked at an exhibition that a conventional statue surrounded by several bold paintings was like
Donatello among the wild beasts.. FTP, name this art movement whose exponents included Andre Derain,
Georges Braque, and Henri Matisse.
Answer: Fauvism
22. When a witch caught a man stealing lettuce from her garden for his wife, the couple agreed as
punishment to give the witch their first-bom. For ten points, name the fairy tale character they gave up
whose name means "lettuce", known for being trapped in a tower and having very long hair.
Answer: Rapunzel
23. While in his mid-20s, James Frazer's The Golden Bough inspired this man to study anthropology, and,
much later, he wrote the introduction to Jomo Kenyatta's thesis, FaCing Mount Kenya. In the intervening
years, his fieldwork led to such works as The Father in Primitive Psychology and Argonauts ofthe Western
Pacific, the latter of which was a treatment of the kula ring. FTP,namethisanthropologist,amajor
proponent of functionalism who, during World War I, studied the Trobriand Islanders.
Answer: Bronislaw Malinowski

Cal Classic IV
Packet by Mike Usher, Jason Hong, and Emil Thomas Chuck
Bonuses
1. Identify the following political positions in the Roman Republic, FTPE:
a) The position, existent from 494 BC, filled by ten plebeians at a time, whose duty it was to protect people
against the acts of magistrates, who introduced most of the legislation in the later stages of the Republic,
and who had veto power over the acts of consuls.
Answer: plebeian tribunes
b) The position, filled by eight magistrates at a time, which was roughly equivalent to the position of US
Supreme Court justice.
Answer: praetor
c) The magistrate initially in charge of registering citizens and their property, whose role later expanded to
supervising senatorial rolls and moral conduct.
Answer:~

2. Name the following elements, for ten points each:
a) This element has the highest electronegativity.
Answer: Fluorine
b) This element, with atomic number 83, is the element with the highest atomic number to have a nonradioactive isotope.
Answer: Bismuth
c) Name either of the two elements that can have a valence of 8.
Answer: Ruthenium or Osmium
3. Identify the following media or techniques of painting, FTPE:
a) The dominant medium throughout the world until the Renaissance, which uses dry pigment with an
emulsion, traditionally either egg yolk or egg white, and thinned with water.
Answer: tempera
b) The method of fixing pigments using heated wax, used extensively in classical Greece. Van Gogh,
Hayet, and Johns have all used a simplified version of the technique.
Answer: encaustic painting
c) The method of painting water-based pigments onto freshly applied plaster.
Answer: fresco painting
4. Identify the following secretary -generals of the UN, FTPE
a) After he died, riots broke out in his home country of Burma over the disposal of his body. He held the
position from 1%2-1971.
Answer: U Thant
b) This Nowegian, the first secretary-general, fought against the expulsion of nationalist China from the
UN, and resigned his office after the Soviet Union ceased to recognize his authority.
Answer: Trygve Lie
c) Serving from 1972-1981, this Austrian oversaw relief efforts in Nicaragua and Guatemala and
peacekeeping operations in Yemen, South Yemen, Angola, and Guinea.
Answer: Kurt Waldheim
5. Answer the following about the epic Beowulf, FTP each:
a) Name the monster who has been ravaging the mead hall, Heorot, for 12 years before Beowulf arrives
and kills him.
Answer: Grendel
b) Name the king of Denmark to whom Heorot belongs.
Answer: Hrothgar
c) Name the kingdom of Southern Sweden from which Beowulf comes.
Answer: Geats

6. Answer the following about Charlemagne, FTP each:
a) Give the day, month, and year, all or nothing, on which Charlemagne was named Holy Roman Emperor.
Answer: December 25,800
b) Name Charlemagne's father, the first king of France's Carolingian dynasty.
Answer: Pepin III (accept Pepin the Short)
c) Give the term for the knights, including Roland and Oliver, who accompanied Charlemagne in medieval
poems about him.
Answer: Paladins (accept The Twelve Peers or Les Douze Pairs)
7. Identify the following machines important in the history of the textile industry, FTPE:
a) The first practical application of multiple spinning by a machine, invented by James Hargreaves in 1767
and named for Hargreaves' daughter..
Answer: Spinning Jenny
b) The machine invented in 1769 which which produced a cotton yarn suitable for wrap, which is stronger
than the thread produced by the spinning jenny.
Answer: Water Frame
c) The device invented by Samuel Crompton in 1779 which simultaneously drew out and twisted cotton
fibers fed into it, whose name reflects that it is a mix between the spinning jenny and the water frame.
Answer: spinning mule
8. Identify the following philosophers from works, FTPE:
a) Critique ofPure Reason
Answer: Immanuel Kant
Answer: Rene Descartes
b) Discourse on Method
c) Being and Nothingness
Answer: Jean-Paul Sartre
9. Answer the following related questions about a 20th century movement in music, FTP each:
a) Name the innovative American composer best known for the operas Einstein on the Beach, Satyagraha,
and The Voyage. He also made an appearance as the musical director for the Christmas pageant in the 1997
Christmas episode of South Park.
Answer: Philip Glass
b) Name the American composer best known for the 1952 work "Four Minutes and Thirty-Three Seconds,"
in which the performers remain completely silent on stage for four minutes and thirty -three seconds.
Answer: John Cage
c) Cage and Glass are both associated with an artistic movement which attempts to explore the essential
elements of art and music, rejecting a traditional treatment of form and development with an exploration of
rhythm. Name that movement.
Answer: Minimalism
10. Identify the following African authors, F 15P each:
a) This Nigerian, a member of the Yoruba culture, had been exiled from his home country until the 1998
death of its dictator, Sani Abacha. He won the 1986 Nobel Prize in literature and wrote such works as The
Open Sore ofaContinent and A Dance ofthe Forests .
Answer: Wole Soyinka
b) The author of such novels as Cry, the Beloved Country and Ah But Your Land is Beautiful, both of which
deal with the tragedy of racism in his homeland of South Africa.
Answer: Alan Paton
11. Identify the following figures in 20th century Spanish history, FTPE:
a) The King who forced dictator Miguel Primo de Rivera's resignation in 1930 but who abdicated the
following year.
Answer: Alfonso XIII
b) The still-dead fascist dictator of Spain from 1939 to 1975.
Answer: Francisco Franco
c) The current king, who took the Spanish throne two days after the death of Franco.
Answer: Juan Carlos

12. Identify the following 20th century American female authors from works, FTP each:
a) The Edible Woman, The Handmaid's Tale
Answer: Margaret Atwood
b) The Joy Luck Club, The Kitchen-Gad's Wife
Answer: Amy Tan
c) The Bell Jar, Crossing the Water
Answer: Sylvia Plath
13. Identify the following communist secret police agencies, for the stated number of points:
a) F5P, the committee of state security which was the head secret police agency in the Soviet Union until
the fall of the USSR in 1991 .
Answer: KGB
b) FTP, the Soviet organization whose name means, "People's Commisariat of Intemal Affairs" and which
carried out the purges of 1934 and 1937-38.
Answer: NKVD
c) F 15P, The secret police of East Germany from 1950-1990.
Answer: Stasi or Staatsicherheit
14. Identify the following 18th century English painters, FTP each:
a) The artist regarded as England's greatest pictorial satirist for works such as "The Rake's Progress,"
"Marriage A la Mode."
Answer: William Hogarth
b) One of the first painters to depict English scenery, this painter is better known for portraits such as
"Blue Boy."
Answer: Thomas Gainesborough
c) Regarded as the best English portraitist of the 18th centUl)', this rival to Gainesbourough painted the
likes of Samuel Johnson and Edmund Burke and served as the first president of the Royal Academy.
Answer: Joshua Reynolds
15. Given the Roman goddess, name her Greek equivalent, FTPeach:
a) Diana
Answer: Artemis
b) Ceres
Answer: Demeter
c) Minerva
Answer: Athena
16. Expand the following abbreviations encountered in biochemistry, FTP each:
a)mRNA
Answer: messenger ribonucleic acid
b)ATP
Answer: adenosine triphosphate
c) RuBP
Answer: ribulose biphosphate
17. Identify the following works of English literature from their subtitles FTP each, or FFP if you need the
author:
a) 10: "A novel without a hero"
5: William Makepeace Thackeray
Answer: Vanity Fair
b) 10: "or, What You Will"
5: William Shakespeare
Answer: Twelfth Ni~ht
c) 10: "or, Virtue Rewarded"
5: Samuel Richardson
Answer: Pamela

18. Identify the following World War II conferences, each held during 1943, FTP each, or for S if you need
the nation in which it was held:
a) 10: Stalin agrees to Churchill and Roosevelt's suggestion that he launch an eastern offensive to coincide
with the Normandy invasion.
S: Iran
Answer: Tehran
b) 10: Churchill and Roosevelt discuss the prospective invasion of Sicily, the apportionment of forces in the
Pacific theater, and nuclear bomb research.
S: Morocco
Answer: Casablanca
c) 10: In this conference, codenamed "Quadrant," Roosevelt and Churchill discussed the coordination of
the invasions of Italy and France, but differences between American and British strategists had to be settled
later at Moscow, Tehran, and Cairo. Another conference was held in the same city in 1944.
S: Canada
Answer: First Quebec
19. Name the countries from cities on a IO-S basis:
a)
10: Chittagong, Khulna
S: Dhaka
Answer: Bangladesh
b)
10: Kwangju, Taejon, Inchon
S: Seoul
Answer: South Korea
10: San Cristobal, Barquisimeto, Maracaibo
c)
S: Caracas
Answer: Venezuela
20. Identify the following scientists important in the early study of electricity and magnetism, FTP each:
a) In 1786, this Italian biologist discovered that the leg muscles of frogs could be made to contract by
exposing them to electricity. He attributed this to "animal electricity."
Answer: Luigi Galvani
b) This Italian physicist demonstrated the first electric battery in 1800. The SI unit of electromotive force
is named in his honor.
Answer: Alessandro Volta
c) In a demonstration in an April 1820 lecture, this Danish physicist discovered that a magnetic current will
deflect a magnetized compass needle.
Answer: Hans Christian 0ersted
21. Identify the fathers of the following Biblical figures, FFPE:
a) Methuselah;
Answer: Enoch
b) James the Greater;
Answer: Zebedee
c) John the Baptist;
Answer: Zechariah
d) David;
Answer: Jesse
e) Jacob;
Answer: Isaac
f)) Noah
Answer: Lamech

s
s
s
ss

s
s
s

