UT-Dallas 2
CAL Classic ill
April 18, 1998
Toss-ups
1. After graduating from Yale University, where he was a member of the baseball team, he
became a Navy fighter pilot in WWil. After 1953 he headed an oil-drilling firm in his
native Texas. In 1966 he was elected to the House of Representatives, and began a long
career in government, holding such positions as ambassador to the UN, director of the
CIA, & Vice-President of the United States. FTP, who is this former President?

A: George BUSH
2. Founded in 1961 after a letter in a British newspaper called for an international
campaign to protect human rights, it is now active in over 150 countries. FTP, what is
this group, the 1977 winner of the Nobel Peace Prize?
A: AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL
3. If you're given the length of two sides of any triangle as well as the measure of the angle
which lies between those two sides, you can use this law of trigonometry to calculate the
length of the third side. FTP, name this law which has the Pythagorean theorem as a
special case.
A: the LAW OF COSINES
4. From 1991-1993, Michael Jordan accomplished the unusual feat of leading the NBA in
scoring while leading his team to the championship. In fact, this other player is the only
one to have turned that trick before, which he did by leading the Milwaukee Bucks to the
NBA title in 1971 while leading the league in scoring. FTP, what player who was traded
to the L.A. Lakers in 1975 went on to playa crucial role in their five championships of
the 1980s?
A: Kareem ABDUL-JABBAR (also accept Lew Alcindor)
5 .. This Boston silversmith made gunpowder and cannon for the Revolutionary war
effort. He designed the first Continental currency and the state seal of Massachusetts. His
most famous engraving is of the 1770 Boston Massacre. FTP who was this Boston
silversmith whose April 18, 1775 midnight ride is commemorated in a poem by
Longfellow?

A: Paul REVERE
6. Named after an English physician who first discovered the disease in 1832, it is a kind
of cancer caused by the uncontrolled growth of cells in the lymphatic system. FTP, what
is this disease which has afflicted Pittsburgh Penguin Star Mario Lemieux?
Copyright 1997 by The University of Texas at Dallas Academic Quiz Team and Dr. Lawrence 1.
Redlinger.All rights reserved. Permission required for photocopying or resale.

1

A: HODGKINS DISEASE
7. Among the more noted composers for this instrument are Corbetta, de Visee, Sanz,
Sor, Tarrega, and Albeniz. Some of the more famous pieces include Tarrega's _Lagrima_
and Albeniz's _Asturias_ (also called _Leyenda-.J. FTP, name this instrument.
A: CLASSICAL GUITAR. (prompt on guitar)

8. Thirty-one stories, 2 novels, and an assortment of speeches provide the corpus of this
author's work. Other than two years spent studying at the University of Iowa, this writer
never left her birth state. FTP, what author published her first novel, _Wise Blood-.J in
1952, shortly after contracting the blood disease lupus?
A: FLANNERY O'CONNER

9. The name is the same. It is a bitter-tasting plant used in the Old Testament to analogize
the judgment on adulterers and idolaters; it is the narcotic substance in absinthe; it is the
falling star of Revelation which poisons 1/3 of the earth's water, and it is Calvin's firstgrade teacher.
A : WORMWOOD
10. This element is probably the only one with its own newsgroup . Its fans love it for
several reasons: first, it burns with a wonderful blue flame - indeed, its name derives from
the sky-blue lines in its spectrum. When eaten, it causes a distinctive mania and its
hydroxide, which will eat through glass, is the most powerful base known. Like most
alkali metals, it explodes violently on contact with water. FTP, what is this component
of the most accurate clocks known?
A: CESIUM

11. The homeland of this people lends its name to the word "laconic". The adjective in
all probability fit these people well. It is a certainty that their lives were not decadent;
for example, they left their parents at age 7 for military training. As a result, they had a
proud and legendary infantry, in which they had so much confidence that they left their
home city unwalled. Their most famous exploit was probably Leonidas' stand at
Thermopylae during the Persian invasion. FTP, who were this Greek people?
A: The SPARTANS orLACEDAEMONIANS

Copyright 1997 by The University of Texas at Dallas Academic Quiz Team and Dr. Lawrence 1.
Redlinger.All rights reserved. Permission required for photocopying or resale.

2

12. He was one of the most talented of the English Romantic poets in the early 19th
century, and some of his famous poems include "Endymion" and "La Belle Dame Sans
Merci". FTP, who is best known for the poem "Ode on a Grecian Urn"?
A: John KEATS
13. It began in St. Joseph, Missouri and terminated in Sacramento, California, a distance
of about 2000 miles. Relay riders traveled the distance in about 8 days. Started in 1860, it
was disbanded in Oct. 1861 after the completion of a transcontinental telegraph line made
its existence unnecessary. FTP, what was this horseback relay mail service?
A: PONY EXPRESS
14. Ironically, the mayor of this city has no power. This may be because Congress is
Republican. This may be because he is a Democrat. Or, this may be due to his
conviction on drug charges. For ten points, of what federal city is Marion Barry mayor.
A: Washington DC
15. The Soviets claim it was "invented by a Russian", but most authorities attribute its
origins to the Indus Valley in India around the 6th century A.D. It spread rapidly along
trade routes and into the Arab world. Played with sixteen pieces a side, its key expression
derives from "The King is Dead" or Al Shah Mat. FTP, what is this game of pawns?

A: CHESS
16. The Year is the Same: Britain recognizes Irish independence, Chaing Kai Shek
loses China, the US prematurely withdraws occupying forces from South Korea,
the Berlin Airlift ends, and Nehru becomes the first Prime Minister of India. FfP
Name the common year.
\1949\

17. Though of unillustrious birth, she was made a saint in 1920, nearly 500 years after
her death. She had no military background, but claiming to have seen visions at age 17,
she took upon herself the burden of freeing France. FTP, name this Maid of Orleans.
A: JOAN OF ARC
18. His doctor, valet, cook, maid, three of his five children, his wife and himself were all
killed on a single night. Recent DNA testing on his skeleton confirm that it is really his,
thus giving new hope to those who believe that one of his daughters, thanks to a jewelencrusted corset, survived the gunfire in the Yekaterinburg cellar. FTP, who was this
father of Anastasia, last of the Romanov czars of Russia?

A: Czar NICHOLAS IT

Copyright 1997 by The University of Texas at Dallas Academic Quiz Team and Dr. Lawrence J.
Redlinger.All rights reserved. Pennission required for photocopying or resale.

3

19. Ruled by the Greeks, Carthaginians, Romans, Arabs, Normans, the Holy Roman
Emperors, Spaniards and Napoleon, it was joined politically to the rest of Italy in 1861.
FTP, what island has its capital at Palermo?
A: SICILY
20. This word was coined in 1920 by Karel Capek (KAIRuhl CHAHpeck) in his
futuristic play _R.u.R._. It derives from the Czech work for compulsory labor. The
word has been used by many science fiction writers, most notably Isaac Asimov. FTP,
what is this word that later began to be applied to real-life machines?
A: ROBOT
21. Born in 1910 in Tokyo, he is renowned for his adaptation of the techniques of Noh
theatre to film-making in such films as _Rashomon_. FTP name this director of numerous
films such as - The Seven Samurai - and - Ran- .
A: Akira KUROSAW A
22. Louis XVI should have taken a lesson from this man's example. A failed absolute
monarch, he was checkmated by Parliament when they withheld money from him until he
agreed to certain reforms. This and other factors led to the English Civil War. FTP, what
English king, beheaded in Jan. 1649 -like Louis XVI 150 years later -lost his throne to
failed economic policies?
A: CHARLESI

14. Thomas Jefferson and James Monroe each won a presidential election in a year ending
in a 0, and both lived to see their successors inaugurated. FTP, who was the third
American to accomplish both of these feats?
A: Ronald REAGAN

Bonus Questions Packet # 2
l.What do you know about the world of plants? FTPE, correctly answer the following
related questions about plants.

> What are the pores in the epidermis ofleaves and stems which aids in gas exchange.
A: STOMA or STOMATA

Copyright 1997 by The University of Texas at Dallas Academic Quiz Team and Dr. Lawrence J.
Redlinger.All rights reserved. Pennission required for photocopying or resale.

4

> What are the cells on each side of the stomata which controls their opening and closing.
A: GUARD CELLS

> And finally, what is the term for the evaporation of water from plants which mainly
occurs through the stomata.
A : TRANSPIRATION
2 . 30-20-10 Identify the year in which all the following events occurred.
For 30 points: Apollo 9 becomes the first manned spacecraft to orbit the moon; US
Naval ship "Pueblo" captured by North Korea.
20 - Russian troops crush the "Prague Spring" movement in Czechoslovakia
10 - Martin Luther King, Jr. & Robert Kennedy assassinated.

A: 1968
3. For ten points each, correctly identify who wrote these works with the word "Death"
in the title.
a) Death of the Hired Man
b) Death of a Salesman

A: Robert FROST
A: Arthur MILLER

c) Death of a Traveling Salesman A: Eudora WELTY

4 . Correctly identify who were the famous lovers of these women for five points apiece
and a bonus five for getting them all correct:
a) Heloise

A: Pierre ABELARD

b) Beatrice

A: DANTE

c) Thisbe

A: PYRAMIS

d) Madame Pompadour

A : LOUIS XV

e) Nefertiti

A: AMENHOTEP IV

5. BONUS Identify the following facts about Jefferson Davis, Confederate president:

Copyright 1997 by The University of Texas at Dallas Academic Quiz Team and Dr. Lawrence J.
Redlinger.All rights reserved. Permission required for photocopying or resale.

5

a) From what state did Jeff. Davis serve in the Senate?

\MISSISSIPPI\

b) In what state was Jeff. Davis born?

\KENTUCKy\

c) Under whom was Jefferson Davis the Secretary of War?

\Franklin PIERCE\

6. For 10 points for each answer, name the lobes of the brain from a brief description.
a. This lobe is the dorsal portion of the brain and deals primarily with vision.
A: OCCIPITAL lobe
b. This lobe is the anterior portion of the brain and deals with planning and decision
making
A: FRONTAL lobe
c. This lobe is the lateral portion of the brain and deals primarily with hearing.
A: TEMPORAL lobe
7. Given a hit song and artist from the past twelve years, identify the ALBUM on which

that song first appeared FFPE, with a 5-point bonus for correctly identifying all five.
a) Blues Traveller, "Hook"

A : FOUR

b) Alanis Morissette, "Ironic"
c) Green Day, "Geek Stink Breath"

A: JAGGED LITTLE PILL
A: INSOMNIAC

d) Joan Osborne, "One of Us"

A:RELISH

e) Hootie and the Blowfish, "Hold My Hand"

A: CRACKED REAR VIEW

8. Get ready to show what you know about medicine. For ten points each, name these
diseases and disorders that start with E.
a) This viral disease of the central nervous system is characterized by inflammation of the
brain. Its usual symptoms are headache, fever, extreme lethargy, and eventually coma.
A: ENCEPHALITIS
b) This respiratory disease is caused by damage to the gas-exchange portion of the lungs
and is associated with heavy cigarette smoking. It is characterized by coughing, wheezing,
and shortness of breath.
Copyright 1997 by The University of Texas at Dallas Academic Quiz Team and Dr. Lawrence 1.
Redlinger.All rights reserved. Permission required for photocopying or resale.

6

A: EMPHYSEMA
c) This brain disorder is characterized by repeated seizures that can vary from a short
period of staring to a violent fit of spastic muscle contraction. In extreme cases, it can be
treated by removing or separating portions of the brain.
A: EPILEPSY
9. Given a group of artists name the art movement, for 10 points apiece.
a) Andre Derain, Maurice de Vlaminck, Henri Matisse

A: FAUVISM

b) Max Ernst, Francis Picabia, Marcel Duchamp

A: DADA

c) Piet Mondrian, Theo van Doesburg
STYLE

A: DE STIJL or THE

10. For ten points each, identify the city in which treaties ending the following wars were
signed.
a) American Revolution

A: PARIS

b) War of 1812

A: GHENT

c) Mexican-American War

A: GUADELOUPE- HIDALGO

11 . 30-20-10 Identify the architect from the clues given.
a) This architect designed the generic Prairie House and the unbuilt
Broadacre City
b) He designed the Robie House and the Johnson Wax Building
c) He designed the house Falling Waters and the Guggenheim Museum

A: Frank Lloyd WRIGHT

12. For ten points apiece, in what country would you find the foHowing ranges:
a) Great Dividing Range

A: AUSTRALIA

b) Southern Alps

A: NEW ZEALAND

Copyright 1997 by The University of Texas at Dallas Academic Quiz Team and Dr. Lawrence 1.
Redlinger.All rights reserved. Permission required for photocopying or resale.

7

c) Mesabi Range

A: UNITED STATES (in Minnesota)

13. DNA is a very important molecule. Answer these questions about it for the stated
number of points.
a) For FIFTEEN points, name any three of the four bases that make up DNA.
A: THYMINE, ADENINE, CYTOSINE, GUANINE (Do not accept uracil)
b) The structure of DNA was discovered by four researchers working in two different
locations. Three received the Nobel Prize for the discovery in 1962, one being deceased.
Name any three of the four researchers for five points apiece.
A: Francis CRICK, James WATSON, Maurice WILKINS, Rosalind FRANKLIN
14 .. The alternative rock group Bush's recent album is entitled Sixteen Stone. Knowing
that a stone is a British form of measurement, for 15 points apiece, cal<;ulate 16 stone in:
A: 224 pounds (16 x 14)

a) Pounds
b) Kilograms, rounded to the nearest whole number
10l.6)

A: 102 kg (16 x 6.35

=

15. FFPE, identify the inventor of the following inventions.
a. stock ticker
b. dynamite
c. Polaroid camera
d. bifocal lenses
e. reaper
f. safety razor

A: Thomas Alva EDISON
A: Alfred NOBEL
A: Edwin LANDA:- Benjamin FRANKLIN
A: Cyrus McCORMICK
A: King GILLETTE

16. It is elemental! Or should we say this is your chance to show us what you know
about the elements. I will give you some clues about an element and you tell me what the
element is FTP each.
a) What is the rarest natural element in the earth's crust?

A: ASTATINE (At)

b) what is the least abundant element in earth's atmosphere?

A: RADON gas (Rn)

c) what is the most common element--70.68 % mass of the solar system?
A: HYDROGEN
Copyright 1997 by The University of Texas at Dallas Academic Quiz Team and Dr. Lawrence J.
Redlinger.AlI rights reserved. Permission required for photocopying or resale.

8

17. 30-20-10 Identify the author from works.
30 - It Can't Happen Here, _Dodsworth_
20 - _Elmer Gantry-, _Babbitt_

A: Sinclair LEWIS
18. For ten points each, answer these constitutional questions:
a) Which two United States Presidents signed the U.S. Constitution
A: George WASHINGTON and James MADISON
b) Who was the only member of Washington's original cabinet who signed
the document

A: Alexander HAMIL TON, Secretary of the Treasury
c) What was the only state not to send any delegates to the constitional
convention
A: RHODE ISLAND
19. Name the Englishman given his works for 30 points after one clue, 20 after two, ten
after three and five after four clues.
a.
b.
c.
d.

For 30 points: The Book of the Duchess
For 20 points: _The House of Fame
For 10 points: _Troilus and Criseyde_
For 5 points: _The Canterbury Tales_

Answer: Geoffrey CHAUCER
20. Given a clue, identify the U.S. state being described for 30 points after
the first clue, 20 points after the second, or 10 points if you need all
three.
30 pt. -- Home of Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield Park
20 pt. -- Home of the Martin Luther King, Jr. National Historic Site
10 pt. -- Home of Stone Mountain and the Andersonville National Historic Site
A: GEORGIA

Copyright 1997 by The University of Texas at Dallas Academic Quiz Team and Dr. Lawrence J.
Redlinger.All rights reserved. Pemlission required for photocopying or resale.

9

21. Name these astronomers for 10 points each.
a. Born in 1473, he created the heliocentric model of the solar system as a theoretical
model without any observational proof. At the insistence of Pope Clement the seventh,
he published "On the Revolutions
of the Heavenly Spheres"

A: Nicolaus COPERNICUS
b. Born in 1564, this Italian mathematical physicist discovered the law of falling bodies
and the parabolic motion of projectiles. He used the newly invented telescope to make
observations which supported
Copernicus' heliocentric theory .
A: GALILEO
c. Born in 1571, this German astronomer formulated three laws to describe the motions of
the planets in the solar system. He also did important work in optics, discovering a fair
approximation for the law of
refraction.

A: Johannes KEPLER
22. Answer the following questions about the London Bridge FTP each.
a) Ivan F. Luckin of the Court of Commons Council of the Corporation of London sold
the London Bridge for about $2.47 million in what year?

A: 1968
b) to whom was London Bridge sold?
A: McCULLOCH OIL Corporation
c) McCulloch Oil disassembled, moved, and then reassembled London Bridge in what
place in Arizona?
A: LAKE HAVASU CITY
23. There are a lot of islands on Planet Terra and we are interested in what you know
about them. For five points each, name any 6 of the 10 largest islands on Earth.
A: GREENLAND or KALAALLIT NUNAAT, NEW GUINEA, BORNEO,
MADAGASCAR, BAFFIN SUMATRA, HONSHU, GREAT BRITAIN, VICTORIA,
ELLESMERE.

Copyright 1997 by The University of Texas at Dallas Academic Quiz Team and Dr. Lawrence J.
Redlinger.All rights reserved. Permission required for photocopying or resale.

10

