CAL Classic III UID 1
April 18, 1998
Toss-ups
l. Their name etymologically means "those who round up bulls." Generally, they were
known as lecherous and drunk creatures. However, some like Chiron, were famous for
their wisdom. For ten points, what are these mythological creatures who were half man
and half horse?

A: CENTAURS
2. Take a flat strip of paper, and give it a half twist. Tape the two ends together to form
a loop. Now try to color both sides of this creation with a marker. Yet that is impossible
because it has only one-side instead of two. FTP, what is this paradoxical creation,
named after a nineteenth-century German mathematician who theorized it during his
studies with topology?
A: MOBIUS STRIP
3. A red star above a two-headed black eagle against a red background, describes the flag
of this country. Not surprising because the country's native name means the land of the
eagle, while the star is for communism. With a coastline along the Adriatic Sea, this
Balkan nation's largest city is also its capital: Tirana. FTP, what is this agriculturallybased Eastern European country, which has been in the news lately?
A: ALBANIA
4. He was the first known European sailor to determine longitude at sea by observing the
Moon, and contributed numerous maps and observations of Arctic waters. He was
obsessed with finding a Northwest Passage to the Orient, and in doing so, he so
thoroughly explored Canada, that he knew such a route could not exist. FTP, who was
this English explorer, after whom an island and a bay in Canada's Northwest Territories
are named?
A: William BAFFIN
5. They cost relatively little, resist dampness and heat, and can last longer than stone.
Palestinians built with this material 9,000 years ago, while Sumerian and Babylonian
builders used them to construct ziggurats, palaces, and city walls. The Romans built
baths, amphitheaters, and aqueducts with this material, often using marble as a covering.
Its popularity continued during the Middle Ages, when stone was scarce, onwards into
the Renassaince and Colonial America. FTP, what is this versatile building material,
which can be sun dried, but is more often baked in a kiln?

A: BRICK or BRICKS
6. These horrible monsters make an appearance in the _Aeneid_ where they predict dire
troubles for the Trojans, including that they will have to eat their own tables. They are
better known from the Voyage of the Argo, where they putrified the table of King
Phineus until Zetes and Calais drove them off. FTP, what are these half-woman, half-bird
monsters, whose collective name today is still used as an insult?

A: HARPIES
7. Despite being a contemporary of Freud, he didn't believe in the power of the
subconcious mind. Instead, he thought people could consciously control their lives and
that social factors were more important than sexual motivations in regards to personality.
He felt humans strived to better themselves, yet sometimes an inferiority or superiority
complex would prohibit them from reaching their goals. FTP, who was this psychologist
who emphasized the uniqueness of every person with his individual psychology?
A: Alfred ADLER
8. Jakob did early work in analytic geometry. Johann also worked in analytic geometry,
as well as physics and mathematical astronomy. Nicolaus studied probability theory,
while Daniel analyzed the properties of vibrating strings, and examined the motion of
fluids. In fact, his principle bears the family name, and explains that energy is conserved
in a moving fluid. FTP what is the common name of this Swiss family of
mathematicians?
A: BERNOULLI
9. The painting's title comes from the arched window and architectural style of the
building in the background. The models used were the artist's sister and his dentist, and
were meant to depict a father and daughter, not the commonly believed husband and wife
relationship. The couple have stern, facial expressions, and are reflective of the artist's
agricultural roots, with the woman in an apron, and the man in farmer's overalls. However,
the pattern on the man's overalls matches the shape of the pitchfork he holds in his right
hand. FTP, what is this often parodied 1930 painting by Grant Wood?
A: AMERICAN GOTHIC
10. Developing in 16th century Italy, it was a transition between the High Renaissance
and baroque styles. Characterized by slender figures in exagerrated poses, this style
treated space unrealistically for dramatic effect, and included sharp contrasts in color.
_Descent from the Cross_ by Rosso Fiorentino and Parmigianino's _Madonna with the
Long Neck_ are examples of this style, which thrived in Florence. FTP, what is this art
style, of which EI Greco was a leading practitioner?

A: MANNERISM
11 . Commericals for the beef industry, the Oldsmobile Aurora, and the U. S. Armed
Services would seem to have nothing in common, if it weren't for the background music.
Although he died in 1990, his Rodeo, Appalachian Spring and Fanfare for the Common
Man can be heard in these commercials. FTP, who was this increasingly ubiquitous
American composer?
A: Aaron COPLAND
12. Its first performanc~, in 1805, was a failure. It was revised two more times, once in
1806, and later in 1814 into a simplified version seen today. It is the story ofFlorestan
who was rumored to have died two years previous, but had been secretly imprisoned by
the evil Don Pizarro. Florestan's wife, Leonora, disguises herself as a boy and becomes an
assistant to Rocco, the chief jailer, so she can search the prison for her husband. In the
end, husband and wife are reunited before Pizarro can kill Florestan, thwarting his evil
plans. FTP, what was the only opera by Beethoven?
A: FIDELIO
13. They were flightless pigeons, larger than a turkey, with huge hooked bills. Inhabitants
of the island of Mauritius, they evolved in isolation, and were harmless, unafraid
creatures. When settlers arrived on the island, they hunted these birds into extinction,
killing the last one around 1680. FTP, name this extinct animal, the inspiration for the
expression "dead as a _ _"
A: DODO bird
14. It was the first animal enzyme to be isolated, and takes its name from the Greek word
meaning "to digest." German physiologist Theodor Ambrose Hubert Schwann found in
1836 that this substance, extracted from the stomach lining, proved useful in digesting
meat. While, it can change proteins into food, it has no effect on fats or carbohydrates.
FTP, what are these digestive enzymes, found in gastric juices?
A: PEPSIN
15. It resists seawater corrosion and rust as well as platinum and better than stainless
steel. In 1791, it was discovered by William Gregor who was interested in mineralogy,
while Martin Klaproth named it in 1795. With an atomic number of 22, its first
commercial use was as an oxide to replace lead in paints, while the military would use this
metal in aircraft and jet engines. FTP, what element has the chemical symbol Ti?
A: TITANIUM
16. It was the first synthetic fiber, invented by French chemist Louis-Marie-Hilaire

Bernigaud de Chardonnet in 1883. He used solutions of partly nitrated cellulose and
forced it through small holes, allowing the solvent to evaporate. The resulting fiber
resembled silk in texture and sheen. FTP, what is this fabric, from the French word for "a
ray of light?"
A: RAYON
17. Except for the Moon, it was thought that no sizable object approached earth closer
than 25 million miles and that no asteroid approached closer than 35 million miles. Yet,
on August 13, 1898, both these theories were dispelled when astronomer Gustav Witt
discovered asteroid number 433. At its closest orbit to the earth, it is a mere 14 million
miles away. It started the tradition of giving male names to asteroids whose orbit
extended outside the asteroid belt. FTP, what is this asteroid, named after the
mythological child of Aphrodite?

A: EROS (Do not accept Cupid)
18. Rumored to have been first sketched on the back of a cocktail napkin, it states that tax
rates can become so high that the incentive to work is lessened. Therefore, any further tax
increase will lower revenue rather than raise it. FTP, what is this hypothesis named after
a Southern California economist?
A : The LAFFER CURVE
19. As a filmmaker, he has produced many movies, three of which won Academy
Awards. As an author, he has written numerous books, including The Silent World, and
World Without Sun. As an inventor, he created an underwater observation vehicle called a
diving saucer. More notably, as a member of the French resistance during WWII, he
developed the aqualung for underwater exploration. FTP, who is this oceanographer, who
explores the sea with his ship the Calypso?
A: Jacques-Yves COUSTEAU
20. In 1783, an Icelandic volcano erupted, killing one-fifth of the population. Much
colder weather followed on the island, causing Benjamin Franklin to postulate that
volcanic ash shot so high into the atmosphere that it would reflect much of the Sun's
radiation. Anything that could create enough dust to effectively shade the earth from
sunlight would lead to mass starvation. These same concerns would surface many years
later, with the age of atomic weapons. FTP, what fear phenomena is the supposed
outcome of nuclear war?
A: NUCLEAR WINTER

23 . Cigarettes cause cancer, nicotine is addictive, and we market directly to children.

Until March of this year no tobacco company wanted to admit these statements, yet they
are part of a settlement between this company, and 22 state attorneys general, who are
suing the tobacco industry over health-care costs. The case has larger cigarette
manufacturers ducking for cover. FTP, what is this smallest of the top tobacco
companies?
A: LIGGETT

25 . His real name is Norrin Radd, and he was a Zenn-Lavian. His people achieved a
virtual utopia on the planet of Zenn-La. That was, until Galactus, a supremely powerful
being, threatened to eat it because he drains the life energies of planets to survive. In
order to save his world, Radd offered to become Galactus' herald, who could scout out
barren worlds for the god to devour. Hence, Galactus endowed him with cosmic power
so he could do his bidding. FTP, name this Marvel super dude with the metallic body.
A: The SILVER SURFER

1. World War I ended before he could go overseas and fight, contributing to one of his
greatest regrets. His other regret was not making the football team at Princeton because
he was too scrawny. He was, however, a prolific writer producing stories such as "The
Rich Boy," "Winter Dreams," and "Bernice Bobs Her Hair" for various magazines like
Red Book, Metropolitan, and the Saturday Evening Post. Yet, today he is most known
for his novels. FTP, who was this jazz age author, best known for The Great Gatsby?

A: F. Scott FITZGERALD
2. She marries an unimaginative country doctor named Charles in a marriage of
convenience. An idealistic dreamer, she yearns for more than her boring, provincial
existence and has multiple affairs. One is with Leon, a law clerk, while the other is with
Rodolphe, a landowner. Both eventually leave her, while she runs up a huge debt by
buying lavish gifts in an attempt to satisfy her own romantic ideals. In the end, with her
dreams hopelessly shattered, she poisons herself with arsenic. FTP what character is the
protagonist of a self-titled 1857 French novel by realist Gustave Flaubert?
A: MADAMEBOVARYorEMMABOVARY

BONUS QUESTIONS PACKET #3
1. IdentifY these characters from Ernest Hemingway's _The Sun Also Rises_for 10 points apiece.
a) He is the main character who was wounded during the war. He tries to readjust to civilian life by
working for a newspaper in Paris, while attempting to rekindle his love affair with Brett Ashley.

A: JAKE BARNES
b) He is another expatriate in Paris, who has already published a novel. He is a Princeton graduate who
has a flattened nose from his years of boxing as a middleweight champion. He has an affair with Brett
Ashley.
A: ROBERT COHN
c) He is a 19 year old matador, who is a master of bullfighting technique, perfect in every manner except for
a small, triangular scar on his cheek. He too, has a brief affair with Brett Ashley.
A: PEDRO ROMERO

2. Name this famous, but dead, Englishman given a list of his works. You'll receive 30 points if you can
do it on the flrst clue, 20 for the second clue, or 10 for the third clue.
a)~

b) Samson A&onistes
c) Paradise Lost

A: John MIL TON
3. Since we are up here Australia is considered "down under." This question is designed to test your
knowledge of the home of Crocodile Dundee. Given an Australian state, name its capital for 5 points
apiece.

a) Northern Territory

A: Darwin

b) Queensland

A: Brisbane

c) Victoria

A: Melbourne

d) Western Australia

A: Perth

e) New South Wales

A: Sydney

1) South Australia

A: Adelaide

4 .. In winning an Oscar for his role in Jeny Maguire, Cuba Gooding, Jr. became the sixth AfricanAmerican actor to win an Academy Award for acting. Only 5 black actors, three men and two women, had
won the gold statue previously . You'll get flve points for each actor or actress you can nanle, with a flve
point bonus for all flve.
A: Hattie MCDANIEL, Denzel WASHINGTON, Sidney POITIER, Whoopi GOLDBERG, Lou
GOSSETT, JR.

5. How well do you know the events of the French Revolution? Given the following series of events, place
them in chronological order from earliest to latest. You'll receive flve points for each event that is in its
correct chronological place. The events: Reign of Terror begins, Execution of the Cordeliers, Creation of
the Revolutionaty Tribunal, Robespierre elected to the Committee of Public Safety, Royalists crushed by
Bonaparte, Trial and execution of Marie Antoinette.

A:

Creation of the Revolutionary Tribunal (Mar 1793),
Robespierre elected to Committee (July 27, 1793),
Reign of Terror begins (September 5, 1793),
Trial and execution of Marie Antoinette (October 16, 1793),
Execution of the Cordeliers (April 5, 1794),
Royalists crushed by Bonaparte (October 5, 1795).

6. Now that the baseball season has just started, it's fair to have a combination baseball and math question.
For 15 points apiece, caculate the given scenarios.
a) Atlanta Braves ace Greg Maddux pitches 5 innings and gives up 2 earned runs. What is his ERA or
earned run average for that game?
A: 3.60 (Earned Runs x 9/ Innings pitched = ERA)
b) In 35 at bats, slugger Albert Belle has 11 hits, and 5 walks, while not being hit by any pitches.
Calculate his On Base Percentage (OBP).
A: .400 (Hits+walks+hit by pitch/at bats+walks+hit by pitch)

7. Hopefully, intrepid contestants you do not have phobophobia, the fear of fear. Therefore, you should
have no problem answering these questions on phobias. Given a phobia, identify what it is the fear of for
10 points on each part.
a) Melissophobia

A: Fear of BEES

b) Astrapophobia

A: Fear ofLIGHTNlNG

c) Cynophobia

A: Fear of DOGS

8. How much do you know about the Federalist papers? For 10 points a part, this question will test your
knowledge on this group of essays appearing in 1787 and 1788 urging the ratification of the U.S.
Constitution
a) Within five, how many Federalist papers were there?
A: 85 (Accept _ 80-90~
b) Of the three writers, Alexander Hamilton, James Madison, and John Jay, which one wrote the most
essays?
A: Alexander HAMILTON (He wrote 51)
c) What bi-weekly New York newspaper did the essays appear in?
A: the INDEPENDENT JOURNAL
9. With Willem de Kooning's recent death in March 1997, all of the Abstract Expressionists are now dead.
To commemorate this truly American art movement, identify these other Abstract Expressionists for 10
points apiece after a brief description

a) This Wyoming-born artist was known for tacking his canvas to the floor so he could put himself in his
art. He perfected a drip technique, which is clearly evident in 1950's Autumn Rhythm.
Answer: Jackson POLLOCK
b) The intellectual of the group, he had studied philosophy at Stanford and Harvard. His style, like fellow
artist Mark Rothko, was in colorfield painting as the vertical bars of The Voyage demonstrates.
A: Robert MOTHERWELL
c) Born in Pennsylvania, he studied in Philadelphia, Boston and London. He is known primarily for his
paintings in black and white, where he would continually paint one color over the other.
A: Franz KLINE

10. Three seems to be a magic number. It is, especially, when considering the movie career of Steven
Seagal. The pony-tailed action hero has starred in five movies, whose titles were exactly three words.
You'll get five points for naming each of Seagal's films with three-word titles. (Note: Do not count Under
Siege 2 whose full title is Under Siege 2: Dark Territory)
A: ABOVE THE LAW, ON DEADLY GROUND, HARD TO KILL, OUT FOR JUSTICE, MARKED
FOR DEATH, THE GLIMMER MAN

11. Identify these Italian musical tenns given their meanings and a brief description for five points apiece.
a) Derived from an Italian word meaning "tail," it is the concluding section to a piece of music.
A : CODA
b) Literally, "as in church," it is the use of vocal music without accompanying instruments.

A: A CAPPELLA
c) Literally, "from the head," it denotes a repeated section of music.
A: DA CAPO
d) Meaning literally, "shake," it is the rapid fluctuation of pitch.

A: VIBRATO
e) Literally, "joke," it is a sped-up fonn of a minuet, and a common component of sonatas, and
symphonies.
A: SCHERZO

f) Literally, "tex1ure," it refers to the basic range of a part, vocal, or musical.
A: TESSITURA
12 .. On February 27, a worldwide panic started on the Internet. A bug was found that would allow
malicious web masters to disguise shortcuts on web pages as hyperlinks, thus allowing access to secured

information. For 10 points apiece answer these questions about the incident.
a) The web browser that the security fault was found in.
A: Microsoft INTERNET EXPLORER

b) The person who detected the bug.
A: Paul GREENE
c) Greene is an electrical engineering student at which Massachusetts university?
A: WORCETER POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE or WORCESTER POLYTECH

13. Identify these composers whose names start with the letter P.
a) This Italian violinist made his concert debut at the age of 9, and could move audiences to tears with his
playing. He wrote 24 caprices for the violin, 2 concertos, and _Moto Perpetuo_.
A: Niccolo PAGANINI

b) This Italian composer was the forth generation of a family of musicians. He composed many operas,
among them~, Madame Butterfly, and the unfinished Turandot.
A: Giacomo PUCCINI

c) This Russian composer was born in the Ukraine. His diverse work includes operas, symphonies,
concertos, quartets, and movie scores. His works include Alexander Nevsky and Peter and the Wolf.
A: Sergei PROKOFIEV

14. Name the part of the brain for the stated number of points.
a) This lobe lies anterior to the central sulcus and superior to the lateral sulcus. It is important in motor
control and higher reasoning.
A: FRONTAL lobe
b) This large tract of fibers allows the two hemispheres to talk to each other and can be surgically cut to
help some epileptics.
A: CORPUS COLLOSUM
c) This second largest structure of the brain lies in the most inferior and posterior part of the cranial cavity.
It participates in the coordination of movement.
A: CEREBELLUM

15. Name these natural polymers for fifteen points apiece.
a) This polymer is obtained from many plants that are cultivated in parts of South America, Asia, and
Africa. It is heated with sulfur to change it from its soft, tacky state to a more useful form.
A: natural RUBBER
b) The most abundant natural polymer in the biosphere, this polysaccharide is a chain of glucose molecules
that can only be digested by a few microbes, which can be found in the guts of other animals, such as cows
and termites.
A : CELLULOSE
16. French physicist Louis-Paul Cailletet and Swiss chemist Raoul-Pierre Pictet did extensive work in
liquifying elements and compounds. For 10 points each, give the temperature in Kelvin at which each of
the following becomes liquid.
a) Nitrogen

A: 17K

b) Carbon monoxide

A : 82K

c) Oxygen

A: 90K

17. For five points each, put these forms of electro-magnetic radiation in order from shortest to longest
wavelength. Ultra-violet, microwaves, radio waves, visible light, X-rays, and infrared.
A: RADIO WA YES, MICROWA YES. INFRARED. VISIBLE LIGHT, ULTRA VIOLET, X-RAYS
18. Name the planet given names of its moons.
a) Portia, Miranda, Belinda, and Cordelia
A : URANUS
b) Callisto, Ganymede, 10, and Europa
A: JUPITER
c) Metis, Thebe, Leda, and Amalthea
A: also JUPITER
19. Answer the following three questions about the theory ofthe history of the earth's lithosphere for ten
points each..
a) First, what is the name of the primeval supercontinent that split up to form Laurasia and
Gondwanaland?
A: PANGAEA
b) What is the name given to Wegener's theory that states that Pangaea broke up and that the pieces then
moved around?
A: CONTINENTAL DRIFT
c) What is the name given to the unifying theory of modern geology developed in the 1960s which
eX'Plains that the earth's lithosphere is broken into sections and the forces behind continental drift.

A: PLATE TECTONICS

20. Identify these related sea vessals, which explored ocean depths, for 15 points apiece:
a) Used in 1934, it was invented by Charles William Beebe, and was a steel bubble with quartz windows.
Attached to a ship by cable, it could descend to a depth of 3,028 feet.
A: BATHYSPHERE
b) An improvement on the bathysphere, it did not depend on a ship connected lifeline. Invented by
Auguste Piccard in 1948, it used heavy iron pellets to descend and a gasoline filled bladder to give it
buoyancy. This device reached a depth of 4,500 feet and was used for the next 15 years.
A: BATHYSCAPHE
21 . Given a pair of works, identify the philosopher for 10 points apiece.
a) Phenomenology of Suirit; Lectures on the PhilosoUhy of HjstOIY
Answer: Georg Friedrich Wilhelm _Hegel_
b) Principles of Psychology; Pragmatism
Answer: William - JamesC. Fear and Trembling; Sickness Unto Death
Answer: Seren _Kierkegaard_
22. In a 1941 speech, President Roosevelt mentioned four kinds of freedom worth fighting for. Artist
Norman Rockwell would later depict them in a series of paintings. You'll receive five points apiece for
naming each of the four freedoms Roosevelt mentioned, for a possible total of 20 points.
A: Freedom of SPEECH AND EXPRESSION, Freedom of WORSHIP, Freedom FROM WANT,
Freedom FROM FEAR.

