VHSL Regular Season
Round 12
First Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. Along with Szilard, this man invented a refrigerator that has no mechanical parts. He is the namesake of a
model of heat capacity that is similar to Debye's. He gives his name to rings that occur when light bends
around by a large mass. This man's namesake field equations describe gravitation. In 1905, this man wrote a
paper on Brownian motion, and another paper on the quantized nature of the photoelectric effect. He also
envisioned a theory that led to the twin paradox. For 10 points, name this physicist behind special and
general relativity.
ANSWER: Albert Einstein
001-09-1-12101

2. One character created by this author escapes from a tower with the aid of his aunt Gina, and earlier
stumbles onto the Waterloo battlefield. This author created Fabrizio del Dongo in The Charterhouse of
Parma, and ended another novel with a woman kissing the lips of a beheaded man. That man impregnates
Mathilde, the daughter of his employer, the Marquis de la Mole, but earlier in this novel begins an affair
with Madame de Rênal. This author wrote a novel about Julien Sorel, whose two title colors refer to army
uniforms and priest robes. For 10 points, name this French author of The Red and the Black.
ANSWER: Stendhal [or Marie-Henri Beyle]
034-09-1-12102

3. The Hausdorff dimensions of these objects are greater than their topological dimensions. Examples of
these objects include the Menger sponge and the Sierpinski triangle, and types of them, such as the Cantor
set, can be created by infinitely iterating a recursive equation. These objects exhibit self-similarity on very
small scales, and resemble natural features like coastline and snowflakes. For 10 points, identify these
geometric spaces named by Benoît Mandelbrot, which contain infinitely smaller copies of themselves.
ANSWER: fractals
004-09-1-12103

4. In some poems, this author describes some socks knit for him by Mama Mori, some salt he saw in a cellar,
and his laziness. This author of Elementary Odes wrote a poem about the speaker climbing "the ladder of the
earth" to reach "the heights of Macchu Picchu." The lines "Tonight I can write the saddest lines" and "the
memory of you emerges from the night around me," appear in this author's "Twenty Love Poems and a Song
of Despair." For 10 points, name this Nobel-winning poet from Chile.
ANSWER: Pablo Neruda [or Ricardo Eliecer Neftalí Reyes Basualto]
033-09-1-12104

5. One of this man's self portraits contains a skeletal arm parallel to the frame. This artist painted a red
headed woman sinking her teeth into a slumped man's neck in Vampire and included such canvases as
Puberty, Death in the Sickroom, and Angst in his Frieze of Life series. This artist painted a bright red and
orange sky swirling into a blue river, which passes underneath a bridge where two passersby vanish on the
left edge, and where the central figure clasps his head with his hands and performs the central action. For 10
points, name this Norwegian painter of The Scream.
ANSWER: Edvard Munch
045-09-1-12105

VHSL Regular Season Round 12 Page 1 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. One character in this novel learns that she is an aunt to two adopted children after Corinne falls ill.
Another character chooses to undergo ritual scarification out of empathy for the female circumcision ritual
suffered by the woman he loves, Tashi. One woman in this novel is sentenced to work for a mayor for
twelve years, after initially refusing by saying "Hell no!" That woman, Sofia, later remarries Harpo. The
main character of this novel learns that "Mister" has hidden letters written by Nettie; later, that woman opens
a pants shop with Shug Avery. For 10 points, name this novel about Celie, written by Alice Walker.
ANSWER: The Color Purple
032-09-1-12106

7. This man defended the British soldiers accused of carrying out the Boston Massacre. In the First
Continental Congress, this man nominated George Washington to be commander of the Continental Army.
This politician appointed Thomas Jefferson to write the Declaration of Independence. During this man's
presidency, the Quasi-War with France occurred, having been sparked by the XYZ affair. The Alien and
Sedition Acts were passed by, for 10 points, what Federalist president, the second president of the United
States?
ANSWER: John Adams [prompt on Adams]
030-09-1-12107

8. Certain ridges in these structures are called lophs, and they are connected to the alveolar bone. Cells
crucial in their development include ameloblasts. Different types of them include brachydonts and
hypsodonts. The innermost part of these structures is known as the pulp. They are covered by a layer of hard
enamel. For 10 points, name these structures in the mouth that help break up food.
ANSWER: teeth
001-09-1-12108

9. This artist painted a woman in a yellow and white gown smiling underneath a landscape portrait in his The
Guitar Player. This artist painted a girl seated above a checkered floor being handed a the title
correspondence in The Love Letter. Several of this artist's works, like his The Milkmaid, contain an open
window at the upper left. This artist painted a girl with a blue headband wearing a turban in Girl with a
Pearl Earring. For 10 points, name this Dutch painter of genre scenes and landscapes like View of Delft.
ANSWER: Jan Vermeer [or Johannes Vermeer]
024-09-1-12109

10. The main character of this novel is shown a crucifix and asked if he believes in God, replying that he
does not. Later, the main character of this novel runs into Marie Cardona while swimming and writes a letter
on behalf of the abusive Raymond Sintès (sin-TEZ). At the start of this novel, the main character spends the
entire night talking to a doorkeeper at the Home for Aged Persons in Marengo without viewing his mother’s
corpse, a fact that is later brought up at trial. An Arab man is shot by Mersault (mur-SOH) in, for 10 points,
what novel by Albert Camus?
ANSWER: The Stranger [or L’ Étranger]
019-09-1-12110

11. Alfred Hugenberg gave significant media exposure to this leader. This man consolidated his power by
ordering the murder of Ernst Rohm. This leader installed Arthur Seyss-Inquart (AR-tour ZICE INK-vart) as
the ruler of Austria after enforcing the Anschluss. This man successfully annexed the Sudetenland from a
neighboring country. This man’s ministers Heinrich Himmler and Hermann Göring (GUR-ing) ran his
secret police force, the Gestapo. For 10 points, name this German dictator who ruled the Third Reich as the
leader of the Nazi Party.
ANSWER: Adolf Hitler
004-09-1-12111

VHSL Regular Season Round 12 Page 2 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

12. This mythological character used a stool to kill his tutor Linus. This figure killed his children in a fit of
madness, then atoned by serving a king who at one point hid in a jar. That king sent this character to retrieve
Hippolyta's (hip-AH-lih-tuhz) girdle and kill the Stymphalian (stim-FAIL-ee-un) birds. He also freed
Prometheus, tricked Atlas into holding up the world again, and fetched three golden apples from the garden
of the Hesperides (hess-PER-id-eez). For 10 points, name this son of Alcmene (ALK-mee-nee) and Zeus,
who completed twelve labors using his superhuman strength.
ANSWER: Herakles [or Hercules]
005-09-1-12112

13. This technique was developed alongside an analogous, but slower and easier-to-control procedure,
named for Siemens and Martin. Sidney Gilchrist Thomas solved the "phosphorus problem" with this
procedure by introducing a dolemite lining, which produced phosphate fertilizer as a byproduct. The
apparatus central to this technique depends on openings called "Tuyeres," through which oxygen flows into
an ovoid container. This process results in the removal of sulfur and excess carbon in order to make an alloy
of iron. For 10 points, name this industrial process, the first widespread way to make steel.
ANSWER: Bessemer process [prompt on steelmaking or equivalents]
026-09-1-12113

14. This author wrote about Hank Stamper, who vows to "Never give an inch" during a logging strike in
Southern Oregon, in Sometimes a Great Notion. He also created Billy Bibbitt, who kills himself after he is
caught with the prostitute Kandy. This subject of Tom Wolfe's The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test also wrote a
novel narrated by an Indian called Chief Bromden, which ends with the death of a lobotomy patient. For 10
points, name this leader of the Merry Pranksters, who created Nurse Ratched and R.P. McMurphy in One
Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest .
ANSWER: Ken Elton Kesey
027-09-1-12114

15. In 1944, this team defeated the ancestors of the Baltimore Orioles in an intracity World Series. This
team's 1934 World Series champions were known as the Gas House Gang and led by such colorful players
as "Ducky" Medwick and "Dizzy" Dean. In 1968, this team won the National League behind Bob Gibson's
1.12 ERA, and in 1998, Mark McGwire broke the single-season home run record playing for this team. For
10 points, name this team that is housed in Busch Stadium, whose current stars include Albert Pujols.
ANSWER: St. Louis Cardinals [or St. Louis Cardinals]
027-09-1-12115

VHSL Regular Season Round 12 Page 3 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Regular Season
Round 12
Directed Round
1A. Attorney general Henry McMaster is investigating misuse of South Carolina-owned aircraft by what
Republican governor, who admitted to flying to Argentina for an affair in June 2009?
ANSWER: Mark Sanford
1B. This man examined the crystal structure of snowflakes in his Micrographia. Name this
seventeenth-century scientist, who also coined the word "cell" and discovered a law of elasticity.
ANSWER: Robert Hooke
2A. Name the river which receives the Farmington and Chicopee tributaries and flows into Long Island
Sound, after forming most of the border between Vermont and New Hampshire.
ANSWER: the Connecticut River
2B. Name the indie-rock band led by Colin Meloy that released the well-received 2009 album The Hazards
of Love as a followup to The Crane Wife, Picaresque, and Castaways and Cutouts.
ANSWER: The Decemberists
3A. What French author of The Haunted Chair and The Mystery of the Yellow Room achieved his most
lasting success with his 1910 novel The Phantom of the Opera?
ANSWER: Gaston Leroux (leh-ROO)
3B. This man retitled his male nude The Vanquished to The Age of Bronze. Name this French sculptor of The
Gates of Hell, which includes his The Kiss and The Thinker.
ANSWER: Auguste Rodin
4A. This is a 10-second calculation question. Find the slope of the line with x-intercept 4 and y-intercept -6.
ANSWER: 3/2 [or 6/4 or 1 1/2 or equivalents]
4B. This is a 10-second calculation question. Solve for x: 6x + 17 = 3x - 10.
ANSWER: x = -9
5A. In languages such as German, nouns in this case can function as adverbs. Name this case whose basic
function is indicating possession.
ANSWER: genitive case
5B. Costa Rica's Oscar Arias (AH-ree-us) is attempting to negotiate a solution to the court-ordered military
coup that ousted President Manuel Zelaya (zeh-LYE-uh) in what Central American country?
ANSWER: Republic of Honduras [or Republica de Honduras]
6A. This is a 20-second calculation question. Seven students take a test, and get scores of 51, 5, 84, 47, 12,
19, and 71. Find the median of these test scores.
ANSWER: 47
VHSL Regular Season Round 12 Page 4 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6B. This is a 20-second calculation question. If six golf balls weigh ten ounces, how much will twenty golf
balls weigh?
ANSWER: 33 1/3 ounces [or 100/3 ounces]
7A. Identify the acid-base theory, first presented in 1923, which defines acids as compounds that can attach
to an unshared pair of electrons.
ANSWER: Lewis theory
7B. What anatomical name is given to any unit of poetic meter, such as a dactyl, iamb, or trochee?
ANSWER: metrical foot
8A. Identify the type of volcano that is composed of a broad cone of basaltic lava and notably makes up the
Hawaiian islands.
ANSWER: shield volcano
8B. The kulan and the quagga are exotic members of what animal genus, which more notably includes the
donkey, zebra, and horse?
ANSWER: equus
9A. This is a 30-second calculation question. Find the perimeter of a right triangle with legs of 9 and 12
inches.
ANSWER: 36 inches
9B. This is a 30-second calculation question. Divide one and two-fifths by three-eights.
ANSWER: 56/15 [or 3 11/15]
10A. Name the Venezuelan-born pitcher who won two American League Cy Young Awards with the Twins
before he was traded to the Mets prior to the 2008 season.
ANSWER: Johan Santana
10B. This man wrote the example sentence “colorless green ideas sleep furiously” in his landmark book
Syntactic Structures. Name this MIT linguist and political commentator.
ANSWER: Avram Noam Chomsky

VHSL Regular Season Round 12 Page 5 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Regular Season
Round 12
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. Wilhelm Fitzhagen commissioned and rewrote this man's Rococo Variations. His first symphony is
subtitled Winter Daydreams and his second is subtitled Little Russian. Van Cliburn won a 1958 competition
by performing a work Rubinstein called "unplayable", his Piano Concerto No. 1 in B-flat Minor. A 5/4
"limping waltz" forms the second movement of his sixth symphony, subtitled Pathetique. The score of a
work he wrote to commemorate the Battle of Borodino calls for cannon fire. For 10 points, identify this
Russian composer of the 1812 Overture and the ballet Swan Lake.
ANSWER: Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky
029-09-1-12117

2. Troops from this nation were sent to Uganda during Operation Entebbe, and this country also sent agents
to Argentina to extradite Adolf Eichmann. One document sent to Walter Rothschild supporting its creation
was the Balfour Declaration. This nation captured the Golan Heights when it fought the Six Day War. This
country helped resettle many people with Operation Magic Carpet under its first prime minister, David
Ben-Gurion. For 10 points, name this state which formed from Palestine and has the world's largest Jewish
population.
ANSWER: State of Israel [or Medinat Yisra'el; or Jewish Home State or equivalents before "this nation"]
023-09-1-12118

3. Andrew Hale turns down a loan for the protagonist of this work. The protagonist of this work visits
widow Homan's store to buy a final bottle of glue to fix a pickle dish broken by a cat. Jotham Powell is hired
by this novel's protagonist, who is jealous of Denis Eady before he learns of the affections of his wife's
cousin. Set in Starkfield, this novel ends when Zeena fires her cousin, who persuades the protagonist to take
a sled ride into an elm tree. For 10 points, name this novel about the title character's love for Mattie Silver,
by Edith Wharton.
ANSWER: Ethan Frome
036-09-1-12119

4. One of these events began after George Custer's 1874 expedition into the Black Hills, which led to the
founding of Deadwood. Another one of these saw thousands of "stampeders" head over the Chilkoot Pass to
Dawson City, after leaving on boats from San Francisco and Seattle. In addition to the one in the Yukon
Territory, the best-known of these events began with a discovery at Sutter's Mill in Sacramento. For 10
points, name these events in which prospectors flocked to an area hoping to strike it rich, the most famous of
which occurred in 1849.
ANSWER: gold rushes [or equivalents]
003-09-1-12120

5. The central path vector protocol for this technology is BGP and IXPs are convergences between
Autonomous Systems. ICANN serves as its governing authority; former head Vint Cerf is described as its
"father." The standards for different components are described in RFCs and WHOIS is used to look up the
controllers of resources in this system. DNS can be used to locate numerical addresses which are central to
its TCP/IP protocol. For 10 points, name this network, the backbone for technologies like IRC, email and the
World Wide Web.
ANSWER: Internet
001-09-1-12121

VHSL Regular Season Round 12 Page 6 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. This group used a military formation called the "Buffalo Horns, "rose to prominence under the successor
to Dingiswayo, and expanded their lands through the mfecane, or great crushing. Their primary weapon was
a short spear called the assegai, which was wielded by soldiers called impi, which they used under
Cetshwayo to defeat a British force at Isandlwana, though they were later defeated at Ulundi to mark the end
of their namesake war. For 10 points, name this South African tribe once led by Shaka.
ANSWER: amaZulu
003-09-1-12122

7. A disease caused by the failed breakdown of one of these compounds is characterized by musty-smelling
urine and is known as PKU. The sequence of these compounds is known as the "primary structure" of a
certain kind of compound. In addition to phenylalanine and tryptophan, these compounds include glycine,
whose R group attached to its central carbon atom is simply a hydrogen. These compounds are joined by
peptide bonds. For 10 points, name these building blocks of proteins.
ANSWER: amino acids
025-09-1-12123

8. The narrator of this novel moves to Ramsdale, where he considers killing a woman in Hourglass Lake.
That narrator keeps a diary that needs a magnifying glass to decode, and his wife Charlotte figures it out
before she runs into a car. At the end of this work, the protagonist is found in Alaska with the last name
Schiller. The narrator kills the author of The Nymph, Claire Quilty, after being stalked across America with
the title character, and, at opening of this novel, he describes the title character as the “light of my life, fire
of my loins.” For 10 points, name this novel about Humbert Humbert’s affair with the “nymphet” Dolores
Haze, by Vladimir Nabokov.
ANSWER: Lolita
027-09-1-12124

9. This ruler's judicial reforms included instituting the bar association in Russia. This ruler created local
parliaments known as Zemstvos. This ruler ended Russia's involvement in the Crimean War after the death
of his father, Nicholas I. This man was planning on introducing some constitutional elements to Russia’s
government before he was killed by bombs planted by the terrorist group, People's Will. This man issued a
ukase [YOU-case] in 1861 that emancipated all the serfs in his country. For 10 points, name this Russian
czar who was succeeded by his son Alexander III.
ANSWER: Alexander II of Russia
035-09-1-12125

10. Developed with Beno Gutenberg, it has been superseded by analysis of the moment magnitude, and the
effects are measured on the related Mercalli Scale. Values can be determined by looking at the amplitude of
measured waves, and its values are logarithmic to the amount of energy released. A value less than 2 is
considered to be micro and no value of 10 or higher has been recorded. For 10 points, name this scale that
measures seismic activity including earthquakes named for an American scientist.
ANSWER: Richter Scale
001-09-1-12126

11. This composer wrote one song about a man with numb fingers standing on ice, “The Hurdy Gurdy
Man.” Another of his songs opens with the piano playing triplet Gs at octaves and is about a boy being
called to death by an Elf. This composer of the cycle of lieder Winter Journey also wrote the Trout Quintet.
This man wrote a string quartet that has a set of variations on his song “Death and the Maiden.” This
composer of “The Erlking” wrote a symphony in B minor that ends after a sketch for its third movement, his
eighth. For 10 points, name this composer of that “Unfinished Symphony.”
ANSWER: Franz Peter Schubert
027-09-1-12127
VHSL Regular Season Round 12 Page 7 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

12. As a Senator, this man led a World War II committee investigating wasteful defense spending. This
president officially desegregated the American army, fired Douglas MacArthur for insubordination, and
vetoed the Taft-Hartley Act. In foreign policy, this president authorized the Berlin Airlift, began the Korean
War, and ordered the atomic bomb dropped on Hiroshima. For 10 points, name this Democrat who defeated
Thomas Dewey in the Election of 1948, and who earlier became president upon the death of Franklin Delano
Roosevelt.
ANSWER: Harry S Truman
004-09-1-12128

13. This city's Dashijie, or Great World, is its leading theater, and the Bund is its waterfront thoroughfare.
Pudong was once this city's largest slum, and Suzhou Creek runs through its center. Its Yangjingbang Canal
once separated this city's French and British concessions, and it is located at the confluence of the Huangpu
and Yangtze rivers. For 10 points name this Chinese port city, the home of the Oriental Pearl Tower.
ANSWER: Shanghai
030-09-1-12129

14. This man led the Army of the Vosges during the Franco-Prussian War. This man fought with the
Colorados against the Blancos during the Uruguayan Civil War. Pius IX rejected this man's offer to fight for
him. The defense forces of the short-lived Roman Republic were led by this man. Twice exiled due to failed
uprisings, this man more successfully conquered the lands of Naples while leading the Expedition of the
Thousand. For 10 points, name this revolutionary leader of the redshirts, who was instrumental in achieving
Italian unification.
ANSWER: Giuseppe Garibaldi
028-09-1-12130

15. In one play by this author, Tom Broadbent lets a pig drive a car in hopes of publicizing his bid to become
an Irish Member of Parliament. This author of John Bull's Other Island wrote a play in which Crofts
proposes to Vivie, the daughter of a brothel-owner, and he also wrote of Andrew Undershaft's marriage to a
character who inherits an armaments factory. For 10 points, name this author of Mrs. Warren's Profession
and Major Barbara, who wrote of attempts to make a Cockney girl into a little lady in his Pygmalion.
ANSWER: George Bernard Shaw
026-09-1-12131

VHSL Regular Season Round 12 Page 8 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Regular Season
Round 12
Tiebreaker Questions
1. Nomenclature for oxygen-containing examples of these entities dictates that the most prevalent species
receives the suffix -ate, and the species with one fewer oxygen than that receives the suffix -ite. Oxygen-free
examples of them include ferricyanide. Monatomic ones are typically referred to by the name of the atom
and the suffix -ide, as in sulfide and fluoride. These chemical species carry an extra electron, resulting in a
negative charge. For 10 points, identify these chemical species, which form ionic bonds with cations.
ANSWER: anions [accept polyatomic anions before "monatomic" is read; prompt on ions before "electron"
is read]
022-09-1-12132

2. These biological entities are classified according to the Baltimore System. One subclass of them
reproduces by using the lytic cycle, and can be called temperate if they use the lysogenic cycle. Ones with an
RNA genome are known as "retro" ones. These entities consist of genetic material encased by a capsid coat.
The tobacco mosaic one was the first isolated. Ones that infect bacteria are known as phages. For 10 points,
name these infectious agents that technically are not living because they need a host cell to reproduce.
ANSWER: viruses [or virii]
033-09-1-12133

3. The system for using these in Finnish is so complicated that a list of place names is published that advises
whether to use the inessive, the elative, or other examples of them. Japanese and English have almost none
of these. Russian has “prepositional” and “instrumental” ones. Written Latin rarely makes use of the
locative or vocative ones. Latin more frequently displays the ablative, dative, or accusative version of, for 10
points, what grammatical state, which often uses a word ending to indicate a noun’s function in a sentence?
ANSWER: noun cases [or noun inflections]
019-09-1-12134

4. One character in this novel is disgraced when an ugly, decrepit woman addresses him as “Tomikin.” The
son of that character, whose entire education consists of reading Shakespeare, commits suicide in a
lighthouse in this novel after refusing to appear before the Arch Community Singster or have sex with
Lenina. The characters in this novel live in a society where Bokanovksy and Podsnap processes are essential,
and where people are divided from alphas to epsilons. Featuring Mustapha Mond, who contemplates exiling
Bernard Marx but spares John the Savage, for 10 points, name this dystopian novel by Aldous Huxley.
ANSWER: Brave New World
034-09-1-12135

5. This composer wrote about Konstanze’s (con-STANZ-ehz) rescue from a Turkish harem in The
Abduction from the Seraglio (seh-RAH-glee-oh). Another of his operas sees Ferrando and Guglielmo
(goo-glee-EHL-moh) test the loyalty of their fiancées. Like his other works, the operas of this composer of
Cosi Fan Tutte (COSS-ee fawn TOO-tay) are given Köchel (KERR-kul) numbers. For 10 points, name this
composer of an opera about a notorious seducer, Don Giovanni, as well as The Magic Flute.
ANSWER: Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart [or Johannes Chrysostomus Wolfgangus Theophilus Mozart]
019-09-1-12136

VHSL Regular Season Round 12 Page 9 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

