VHSL Regular Season
Round 8
First Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. A short-lived communist republic was declared in this now defunct nation after it was invaded by Bela
Kun. This country was home to the Charter 77 to protect against rights violations after one leader in this
former nation declared the creation of “socialism with a human face.” Alexander Dubcek [DOOB-CHECK]
was forced out of office after a Soviet invasion of this country. This nation was forced to give up the
Sudetenland to Germany. Split in two by the Velvet divorce, for 10 points, name this former nation which
was home to the “Prague Spring” movement.
ANSWER: Czechoslovakia [or Ceskoslovensko; prompt on Czech Republic; prompt on Slovakia]
027-09-1-08101

2. This composer wrote a song cycle that includes the piece "Die alten, bosen Lieder." He also included the
song "Ich grolle nicht" in that work, Dichterliebe. This composer of the Fantasy in C included the section
"Traumerei" in his Scenes from Childhood. He was inspired by the Archbishop of Cologne's elevation to
cardinal to write a five-movement symphony that depicts a certain river valley. His wife Clara premiered his
only Piano Concerto. For 10 points, name this German composer of the Rhenish and Spring symphonies.
ANSWER: Robert Alexander Schumann
026-09-1-08102

3. Enrico Fermi proposed that an atom's preferred mode of beta decay depends on whether it has too many or
too few of these particles, which are often ejected during spontaneous fission. Carbon-14 dating makes use
of the decay of one of these particles, which consists of one up and two down quarks. The number of them in
the nucleus is equal to the difference between atomic mass and atomic number. For 10 points, name these
particles discovered by James Chadwick, which are slightly heavier than protons and electrically neutral.
ANSWER: neutrons
003-09-1-08103

4. This poet wrote about Identity, "the Man," and "the City" in his five-book epic about the New Jersey town
Paterson. He's not W.H. Auden, but he used short stanzas to describe Landscape with the Fall of Icarus in
his "Pictures from Breughel." He writes "they were delicious/so sweet/and so cold" as his excuse for eating
someone else's plums in "This Is Just To Say." His best-known poem is about an object "glazed with
rainwater beside the white chickens," and opens with the line "so much depends on." For 10 points, name
this poet who wrote "The Red Wheelbarrow."
ANSWER: William Carlos Williams
045-09-1-08104

5. This device breaks up tasks into several stages; the first two, fetch and decode, are executed in parallel
using a pipeline. Moore's Law describes the number of transistors that can fit on one die. The von Neumann
bottleneck occurs because information must travel between the memory and this part of the computer. This
device contains an arithmetic logic unit and one or more caches to store instructions and/or data. For 10
points, name these devices that are responsible for doing most of the computing on a computer.
ANSWER: CPUs [or central processing units]
003-09-1-08105

VHSL Regular Season Round 8 Page 1 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. This ruler signed the Treaty of Messina with Tancred of Sicily. This man invaded Cyprus to rescue his
betrothed, Berengaria of Navarre. While ruling as Duke of Aquitaine, this man twice revolted against his
father, once with the assistance of Philip Augustus of France. This man signed a treaty with Saladin when he
joined Philip and Frederick Barbarossa in leading the Third Crusade. While imprisoned in Austria, this
man's throne was usurped by his younger brother, John Lackland. For 10 points, name this son of Henry II
known as "the lionheart."
ANSWER: Richard I [or Richard the Lionhearted before it is read; prompt on Richard]
028-09-1-08106

7. This man led his forces from Gilboah to prevent his enemies from taking the Valley of Jezreel. He ordered
the murder of eight-five priests of Nob. The taking of his concubine Ripzah led to his son Ihbosheth
(IB-oh-sheth) breaking ties with Abner. This man lost the support of a prophet, whose ghost he had conjured
by the Witch of Endor. He tried to kill the son of Jesse who had killed the Philistine Goliath. He was first
anointed, then rebuked, by the prophet Samuel. For 10 points, name this ruler who was succeeded by David
after becoming the first king of the Israelites.
ANSWER: King Saul [or Sha’ul ]
027-09-1-08107

8. This author wrote about Gurov's affair with Anna von Diederitz, who he meets in Yala, in his "Lady with
a Lapdog." One play by this author opens with a play performed by Nina, who is shown the title animal by
Konstantin Trepylov. One play by this author involves a duel where Solyony kills Tuzenbach, who loved
Irina, Vershinin's affair with Masha, and Olga's headmistress position. This author of The Seagull and Three
Sisters wrote a play about Lopakhin's plan to save the title property belonging to the Ranevskayas, which is
cut down anyway. For 10 points, name this Russian author of Uncle Vanya and The Cherry Orchard.
ANSWER: Anton Pavlovich Chekhov
026-09-1-08108

9. This function is the imaginary part of Euler's formula, and its hyperbolic version is equal to one-half of
the quantity "e to the x minus e to the negative x." This function's namesake law states that the ratio of this
function of one angle to the length of the side opposite that angle is equal for all three angles, and its
multiplicative inverse is the cosecant function. For 10 points, name this trigonometric function, which in a
right triangle is equal to the opposite over the hypotenuse.
ANSWER: sine
025-09-1-08109

10. This country contains the mouth of the Mahanad River in its Orissa state. Port Blair is the capital of the
Andaman Islands in this country. This country contains the Thar desert. Although it does not have a Muslim
majority, this nation has the largest Muslim population in the world, and even more Muslims lived in this
country before it was partitioned. That partition has led to a conflict over whether it or Pakistan controls
Kashmir. For 10 points, name this country in which the Ganges runs through Calcutta, whose other countries
include New Delhi and Bombay.
ANSWER: Republic of India [or Bharat]
027-09-1-08110

VHSL Regular Season Round 8 Page 2 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

11. This author wrote about Gilliat's pursuit of Deruchette after Lethierry's marooning on Guernsey in The
Toilers of the Sea. In another of his works, the goat Djali spells the name of Captain Phoebus, and the title
character kills the Frollo brothers. This author wrote about Gavroche, a boy who gets killed picking up
ammunition and is the son of the Thenardiers, in a work about Cosette, Inspector Javert, and Jean Valjean.
This author also wrote a novel about the gypsy Esmeralda and the deformed Quasimodo. For 10 points,
name this French author of Les Miserables and The Hunchback of Notre Dame.
ANSWER: Victor Marie Hugo
020-09-1-08111

12. Along with some Paiute Indians, members of this group murdered the Fancher-Baker party in the
Mountain Meadows Massacre. This group moved west after a failed settlement at Nauvoo in Illinois. It
attempted to create the state of Deseret, but its marital practices delayed that settlement's bid for statehood
until 1896. This group was led by Brigham Young to the state of Utah. For 10 points, name this religious
group which once practiced polygamy, and which was founded when Joseph Smith was shown some golden
plates.
ANSWER: Mormons [or Church of Mormon members; or Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
members; or equivalents]
023-09-1-08112

13. Less common varieties of this type of rock include oolite and coqina. Karst topography landscapes are
primarily made of this rock or a similar rock with a magnesium component, dolomite. Sinkholes form when
these rocks are eroded away by carbonic acid in underground water systems. Often formed by deposits left
behind from shelled marine organisms, orogenic (or-AH-gen-ic) events can metamorphise these rocks into
marble. For 10 points, name these sedimentary rocks made from calcite, such as chalk.
ANSWER: limestone
001-09-1-08113

14. The image of a Beadsman praying in the cold opens one of this author's works, in which Angela helps
Porphyro elope with his love Madeline. The speaker of one poem by this author of "The Eve of St. Agnes"
"saw pale kings, and princes too" who warn him about the danger of "La Belle Dame sans Merci." He noted
"thou was not born for death, immortal Bird" in one poem, while another of his poems apostrophizes a
"still-unravish'd bride of quietness" and notes that "Beauty is truth, truth beauty". For 10 points, name this
author of "Ode to a Nightingale" and "Ode on a Grecian Urn".
ANSWER: John Keats [accept "The Eve of St. Agnes" before "this author" is read]
029-09-1-08114

15. This man wrote a "Letter from Jamaica" while in exile there, and described the failure of the First
Republic in his Cartagena Manifesto. This man won victories at Boyaca and Carabobo, but it was his
lieutenant, Antonio Jose de Sucre, who won the final victory at Ayacucho, securing independence for Peru.
This man wrote the constitution and served as president-for-life of Upper Peru, which was renamed in this
man's honor. For 10 points, name this South American hero, known as El Libertador, or The Liberator.
ANSWER: Simon (Jose' Antonio de la Santisima Trinidad) Bolivar (y Palacios)
003-09-1-08115

VHSL Regular Season Round 8 Page 3 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Regular Season
Round 8
Directed Round
1A. The Moho (MOW-hoe) Discontinuity is found at the top of what layer of the Earth, that lays between
the core and the crust?
ANSWER: mantle
1B. Name the author of The Audacity of Hope and Dreams From My Father who was the first
African-American president of the Harvard Law Review.
ANSWER: Barack Hussein Obama II
2A. Name the actress who starred alongside Matthew McConaughey in Failure to Launch and played Carrie
Bradshaw in the TV show and movie Sex and the City.
ANSWER: Sarah Jessica Parker
2B. Which French utopian thinker imagined "phalanxes" of 1,620 people, because he believed that twelve
types of passion led to 810 distinct personality types?
ANSWER: Charles Fourier
3A. Which Bantu language is the only one of African origin to be one of the official languages of the
African Union?
ANSWER: Swahili
3B. Tides of Darkness, Reign of Chaos, and The Frozen Throne are editions of what series of games created
by Blizzard Entertainment?
ANSWER: Warcraft [do not accept "World of Warcraft"]
4A. This is a 10-second calculation question. Solve x2 - 5x + 6.
ANSWER: 2 and 3 [both answers required]
4B. This is a 10-second calculation question. Simplify (6x + 24)/(8x + 32).
ANSWER: 3/4
5A. What European country consists of territory on the Peninsula of Jutland and over four hundred islands
including Zealand, Funen, and Bornholm?
ANSWER: Kingdom of Denmark [or Kongeriget Danmark]
5B. What term describes animals, such as the platypus and the echidna, that are mammals but lay eggs rather
than giving live birth?
ANSWER: monotremes
6A. This is a 20-second calculation question. If a coin is weighted so that it will fall heads 75% of the time
when it is flipped, what is the expected number of tails in 15 flips?
ANSWER: 3.75 [or 3 3/4 or 15/4]
VHSL Regular Season Round 8 Page 4 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6B. This is a 20-second calculation question. Evaluate 34 - 43.
ANSWER: 17
7A. In July 2009, Javier (HAH-vee-air) Velasquez was named the prime minister of what South American
country, once led by Alberto Fujimori?
ANSWER: Republic of Peru [or Republica del Peru]
7B. How many lines are in a Shakespearean sonnet?
ANSWER: fourteen
8A. What Eugene O'Neill play features the character of Ephraim Cabot and his three sons Peter, Simeon, and
Eben?
ANSWER: Desire Under the Elms
8B. Name the man who, in addition to advocating replaceable parts in muskets, developed the cotton gin, a
device that removes the seeds from the cotton fibers.
ANSWER: Eli Whitney
9A. This is a 30-second calculation question. Find the period of the function y = 2 sin (3x - 4).
ANSWER: 2 pi/3 [accept 120 degrees]
9B. This is a 30-second calculation question. Evaluate 6.3 times 19.8.
ANSWER: 124.74
10A. Name the chemical element whose allotropes include fullerenes (FULL-uh-reens), graphite, diamonds,
and lonsdaleite (LONZ-dayl-ite).
ANSWER: carbon [or C]
10B. Name the mannerist painting, by El Greco, that shows the Castle of San Servando and the contrast
between the blue and white sky and the green and black hills.
ANSWER: View of Toledo

VHSL Regular Season Round 8 Page 5 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Regular Season
Round 8
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. This author wrote a poem that ends with the question "How can we know the dancer from the dance?"
This author collected "Among School Children" in The Tower and described "the loosening thighs" of a
mythological figure. This author of "Leda and the Swan" wrote a poem which describes "such a form as
Grecian goldsmiths make, compares "an aged man" to "a tattered coat upon a stick," and states "that is no
country for old men." This poet of "Sailing to Byzantium" ends another poem with a "rough beast" that
"slouches towards Bethlehem to be born," and describes "things fall[ing] apart." For 10 points, name this
Irish poet of "The Second Coming."
ANSWER: William Butler Yeats
026-09-1-08117

2. This character screams "I'm losing my perspicacity!" after coming up with only two synonyms for "relax"
during a teachers' strike. Earlier, she takes pity on a classmate and delivers a valentine that says "I
choo-choo-choose you." She converted to Buddhism in 2001 after becoming disenchanted with church
renovations, six years after becoming a vegetarian. This eight-year-old student of Miss Hoover has been
voiced since 1987 by Yeardley (YARD-lee) Smith. For 10 points, name this middle child, the elder sister of
Maggie and younger sister of Bart.
ANSWER: Lisa Marie Simpson [prompt on Simpson]
019-09-1-08118

3. Kupffer cells in this organ break down red blood cells. This organ is the site of hemoglobin metabolism
into bilirubin, and the gluconeogenesis pathway occurs here. Blood drained from the gastrointestinal tract
enters this organ through the hepatic portal vein. The gallbladder stores bile produced in this organ. Chronic
infection with hepatitis C, or chronic alcohol use, can cause cirrhosis, a disease of this organ. For 10 points,
name this largest internal organ and largest gland of the body, which serves to detoxify the blood.
ANSWER: liver
022-09-1-08119

4. While living in Rheinsberg Castle, this ruler spent much of his time in correspondence with Voltaire,
whom this man later invited to visit him in his Sanssouci Palace. This man fled a battle his troops eventually
won under Schwerin at Mollwitz. That battle occurred after this ruler invaded Silesia in a breach of the
Pragmatic Sanction. For 10 points, name this ruler who fought in both the War of the Austrian Succession
and the Seven Years' War against Maria Theresa, a Hohenzollern who expanded the size and power of
Prussia.
ANSWER: Frederick the Great [or Frederick II of Prussia; or Friedrich der Grosse; or Friedrich II;
prompt on Frederick; prompt on Friedrich]
023-09-1-08120

5. This figure was told how to pass Helios's cattle when he visited Tiresias (tie-REE-see-us) in the
underworld; there, this figure also saw his own mother, Anticlea (an-tih-CLAY-uh). Hermes demanded the
release of this figure from a nymph on Ogygia (oh-JIH-jee-uh). This man angered Poseidon when he blinded
Poseidon's Cyclops son, Polyphemus (pah-LIH-fih-mus). He fought against his wife Penelope's suitors
alongside his son Telemachus. For 10 points, name this Greek hero, who was held hostage by Calypso on his
way home from the Trojan War, and is the namesake of an epic by Homer.
ANSWER: Odysseus [or Ulysses; accept Ulixes before "Poseidon" is read]
005-09-1-08121

VHSL Regular Season Round 8 Page 6 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. In one of this author's works, "Betsy from Kansas" and Doreen are guest editors, and crab meat gives a
group food poisoning at a lunch for Lady Day magazine. One of this writer's poems ends "you bastard, I'm
through" after stating "There's a stake through your fat black heart." In this author's only novel, Dr. Gordon
and Dr. Nolan are psychiatrists at the mental institution of the main character, a college student named
Esther Greenwood. For 10 points, name this poet of "Daddy" and author of The Bell Jar.
ANSWER: Sylvia Plath
012-09-1-08122

7. One failed plan of this man led to his being replaced by Liu Shaoqi, although this man later formulated
another failed plan with Lin Biao. This man gained control of an army after the Battle of Xiang during the
Long March, and this man sought to revitalize his party and increase his country's production in the Cultural
Revolution and Great Leap Forward. Some quotations of this man were collected and given to all citizens in
the form of the Little Red Book. For 10 points, name this man who was a longtime leader of the Communist
Party in China.
ANSWER: Mao Zedong
023-09-1-08123

8. This painting hangs opposite a 1794 Thomas Lawrence painting in The Huntington. The
seventeenth-century apparel of this painting's subject is an homage to Anthony van Dyck's portrait of
Charles I. The dark sky in the background contrasts with the light face of the subject, who stands with his
left arm at his waist and holds a feathered hat in his right hand. The subject is generally thought to be
Jonathan Buttall, and is prominently dressed in the titular color. For 10 points, name this portrait by Thomas
Gainsborough.
ANSWER: The Blue Boy
024-09-1-08124

9. One allotrope of this element is often described as a truncated icosahedron, and was discovered by Curl,
Kroto, and Smalley. Another allotrope of this element consists of a single layer of hexagonal rings. In
addition to the buckminsterfullerene and graphene, this element also forms a three-dimensional lattice that is
among the hardest structures known to man, and a soft conductor used in pencil lead. For 10 points, name
this element whose allotropes include diamond and graphite.
ANSWER: carbon [or C]
027-09-1-08125

10. This author wrote about a character who serves as a fire lookout on Desolation Peak, who accompanies
the Buddhist Japhy Ryder. In another novel by this author of The Dharma Bums, one character is called the
"HOLY GOOF" just after taking a marijuana-filled trip to a Mexico City bordello, and Carlo Marx is visited
with Bull Lee in Denver by the central characters, one of who takes on a job as night watchman for merchant
sailors in San Francisco. Dean Moriarty and Sal Paradise travel across America by car in this man's best
known novel. For 10 points, name this author of On The Road.
ANSWER: Jack Kerouac [or Jean Louis Lebris de Kerouac]
027-09-1-08126

11. Writers within this philosophical movement included the theorist of "reification"
(RAY-if-ih-CAY-shun), Gyorgy Lukacs (jee-OR-jee LOO-kash). This school believes in a process that it
calls "dialectical materialism." Another theorist of this movement stressed the need for a "vanguard" to bring
about social change and wrote the article Imperialism, the Highest Stage of Capitalism. This school's
concepts include the labor theory of value. For 10 points, name this political philosophy founded by the man
who helped Frederich Engels write a certain Manifesto.
ANSWER: Marxism [or communism]
021-09-1-08127
VHSL Regular Season Round 8 Page 7 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

12. This president was advised by Mary McLeod [MAC LLOYD] Bethune, who started a school for black
students in Daytona Beach. The Supreme Court thwarted some of this man's plans in U.S. v. Butler and
Schechter v. U.S., which led to this man's "court-packing scheme." Members of this man's cabinet included
Cordell Hull and Frances Perkins. Agencies begun by this man include the Tennessee Valley Authority and
the Works Progress Administration. For 10 points, name this president who defeated Herbert Hoover in the
election of 1932 and worked against the Great Depression with his New Deal.
ANSWER: Franklin Delano Roosevelt [or FDR; prompt on Roosevelt]
023-09-1-08128

13. One novel written in this language is about the Syrian Nacib Saad, who romances Gabriela. Another
novel written in this language is often titled Epitaph for a Small Winner and center on Bras Cubas
posthumously telling his life story. This language originated in a country whose authors wrote Blindness and
an epic about Bacchus and Neptune's attempt to stop a fleet from arriving in Calicut, India. That work, The
Lusiads, was written in this language by Luis Camoens and fictionalized the journey of Vasco da Gama. For
10 points, name this language spoken in Brazil.
ANSWER: Portuguese
036-09-1-08129

14. One politician with this last name came in second during the 1968 New Hampshire primary. That result
caused Robert Kennedy to enter the race and Lyndon Johnson to end his bid for reelection. Another
politician of this last name was rebuked by Joseph Welch for his aggressive actions. That politician with this
last name gave a speech claiming to have a list of 205 names. For 10 points, give the shared last name of
Minnesota and Wisconsin senators Eugene and Joseph, the latter of whom started a search in the 1950s
inside the government for Communists.
ANSWER: McCarthy [or Eugene McCarthy or Joseph McCarthy]
023-09-1-08130

15. This disease can be treated with hydroxyurea, which slows production of affected cells. This disease is
caused by a substitution of valine for glutamic acid, and spleen and liver enlargement can occur due to
reduced blood flow. It is an example of heterozygote advantage since those with one copy of the affected
gene are less likely to contract malaria. For 10 points, name this autosomal recessive disorder in which a
defective hemoglobin gene causes abnormally shaped red blood cells.
ANSWER: sickle-cell anemia [or sickle-cell disease; do not accept or prompt on "anemia" by itself]
003-09-1-08131

VHSL Regular Season Round 8 Page 8 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Regular Season
Round 8
Tiebreaker Questions
1. This author memorialized his wife's death in a fireplace accident in his poem "The Cross of Snow." A
long poem by this author, written in dactylic hexameter, follows Gabriel Lajeunesse’s (lah-zhoo-NESS-ess)
travails during the expulsion of the Acadians from Canada. In addition to Evangeline, this author wrote
about the husband of Minnehaha (mini-HA-ha) and about a man instructed to "hang a lantern aloft in the
belfry arch/Of the North Church tower as a signal light." For 10 points, name this writer of The Song of
Hiawatha and “Paul Revere’s Ride.”
ANSWER: Henry Wadsworth Longfellow
019-09-1-08132

2. Hyaluronidase and other digestive enzymes in the acrosomes of these objects are activated upon binding
to the glycoprotein ZP3. When one of these objects crosses the zona pellucida, it prevents all others from
doing so. Interaction with one of these objects causes the oocyte to undergo a second meiotic division, which
is followed by the zygote stage. These cells are combined with fluid from the prostate gland after being
produced in the testes. For 10 points, name these cells that attach to egg cells during fertilization.
ANSWER: sperm cells
003-09-1-08133

3. This economist wrote a Treatise on Probability, and argued against deflation policies in A Tract on
Monetary Reform. He criticized the Treaty of Versailles in The Economic Consequences of the Peace, and
wrote about the consumption function in another work. In that work, this man proposed that a combination
of tax cuts and increased government spending could counteract a depression. For 10 points, name this
British economist who wrote The General Theory of Employment, Interest, and Money.
ANSWER: John Maynard Keynes
024-09-1-08134

4. On the right side of this painting, tire tracks can be seen in front of a wire fence, and a barn stands among
smaller buildings in the background. The central figure wears a pink dress and stares away from the viewer.
She is lying in a brown field and looking toward her home, the real-life Olson house located in Cushing,
Maine. For 10 points, name this painting depicting the title paralyzed female, a work of Andrew Wyeth.
ANSWER: Christina's World
025-09-1-08135

5. A common method for calibration in NMR uses the tetramethyl compound of this element. Types of
minerals that contain this element bonded to oxygen are known as pyroxenes and olivine. It is used to make
a protective shell by diatoms (DYE-uh-tomz). N and P type substances can be made by adding arsenic and
gallium to it in a process known as doping. Its dioxide is found in quartz, and this element is useful for
making the semiconductors used in computer chips. For 10 points, name this element with atomic number 14
and symbol Si.
ANSWER: silicon [accept Si before it is read]
001-09-1-08136

VHSL Regular Season Round 8 Page 9 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

