VHSL Regular Season
Round 3
First Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. In one of this man’s works, James Nightshade and Will Halloway destroy the Mirror Maze and Dust
Witch, which are part of Cooger & Dark's Pandemonium Shadow Show. In another novel, this author of The
Illustrated Man wrote about Leo Auffman's construction of the Happiness Machine in Green Town, Illinois,
where Douglas Spaulding also lives. He also described how Clarisse McClellan and Professor Faber inspire
a man who rebels against Captain Beatty, the fireman Guy Montag. For 10 points, name this author of
Dandelion Wine and Fahrenheit 451.
ANSWER: Ray Bradbury
015-09-1-03101

2. This country clashed with the U.S. during the Tampico Incident. U.S. Ambassador Henry Lane Wilson
supported one coup in this country, which resulted in the assassination of Francisco Madero. This country
was turned into an empire by Napoleon III under the rule of Maximilian. This country's history includes the
"Porfiriate", during which it was ruled by Porfirio Diaz, which was followed by its revolution that involved
Emiliano Zapata and Pancho Villa. For 10 points, name this country the US fought in an 1845-1848 war,
located south of Texas.
ANSWER: Mexico [or Estados Unidos Mexicanos; or United Mexican States]
021-09-1-03102

3. In 2008, this athlete caused controversy by comparing DeShawn Stevenson to Soulja Boy and himself to
Jay-Z. He attempted to defend himself from charges of traveling by describing his "crab dribble," and caused
another controversy by ordering Nike to suppress all videos of Jordan Crawford dunking on him. He was
drafted one spot before Darko Milicic as the first pick in the 2003 NBA draft. He led his team to the 2007
finals, although they were swept by the Spurs. For 10 points, name this 2008-2009 NBA MVP, who plays
small forward for the Cleveland Cavaliers.
ANSWER: LeBron James
004-09-1-03103

4. A syndrome named for this structure is also known as Martin-Bell syndrome, and results when it is
"fragile." Deactivated ones condense into Barr bodies, and people with an extra one of them have Klinefelter
syndrome. Hemophilia is a recessive disorder linked to this chromosome, which explains why all men who
carry the hemophilia allele exhibit the condition. For 10 points, name this chromosome, of which males have
one and females have two.
ANSWER: X chromosome
025-09-1-03104

5. This empire faced insurrections from the Trung sisters in Vietnam and by the Kingdom of Goguryeo. The
Red Eyebrows revolted during this dynasty, and its earlier rulers faced raids by the Xiongnu. The "Western"
and "Eastern" branches of this dynasty are split by the Xin dynasty proclaimed by Wang Mang, and this
dynasty bordered on the Caspian Sea to the west after military campaigns organized by its seventh emperor,
Wu Di. Disaffected peasantry during this dynasty were drawn toward the cult of the Yellow Turbans, who
revolted in 184 A.D. For 10 points, name this dynasty that followed the Qin (CHIN) and that gives its name
to the ethnicity of the majority of Chinese.
ANSWER: Han Dynasty
040-09-1-03105

VHSL Regular Season Round 3 Page 1 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. Two characters in this poem go on a mission to steal the Palladium. This poem ends by noting the
“burial” of a “breaker of horses,” and includes a feud over the possession of of Briseis (breh-SAY-uss). A
temporary truce in this poem is ended when Pandarus (pan-DAY-russ) shoots an arrow at Menelaus
(MEH-nuh-LAY-us). Later, Sarpedon (SAR-pay-don) is killed by Patroclus, and Priam sees his son Hector
killed by a man who was dipped in the Styx while held by his heel, Achilles. For 10 points, name this poem
which takes place during the ninth year of the Trojan War and is traditionally attributed to Homer, like its
counterpart, the Odyssey.
ANSWER: the Iliad
019-09-1-03106

7. The treaty ending this war used the faulty Mitchell Map, which caused boundary problems like the
Northwest Angle. Poles Casimir Pulaski and Tadeusz Kosciuszko served as high ranking officials for one
side in this war. That side in this war also employed the Prussian Friedrich von Steuben to develop military
discipline. French admiral Comte de Grasse won the Battle of the Chesapeake to ensure Comte de
Rochambeau could aid in forcing the surrender of Cornwallis. For 10 points, name this war that ended at
Yorktown with a victory for George Washington.
ANSWER: American Revolutionary War
015-09-1-03107

8. The speaker of one poem by this man wishes he'd "been a pair of ragged claws" after earlier asking "how
should I presume?" and describing women that "come and go/Talking of Michelangelo". Another of his
works contains the refrain "Here we go round the prickly pear" and ends by noting that "the world ends/Not
with a bang but a whimper." His best-known poem ends "Shantih shantih shantih" and opens by calling
April "the cruellest month". For 10 points, name this author of "The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock",
"Hollow Men", and "The Waste Land".
ANSWER: Thomas Stearns Eliot
029-09-1-03108

9. This character killed the leader of the Rutulians in order to marry the daughter of Latinus, Livinia. This
figure entered the underworld with the help of the Cumaean (kyoo-MAY-un) Sybil and a golden bough. This
figure trekked to Mount Ida carrying his father and his son Ascanius. Before slaying Turnus, this man
rejected the Queen of Carthage, Dido. For 10 points, name this Trojan son of Anchises and Venus, who is
the namesake of an epic by Virgil about the founding of Rome.
ANSWER: Aeneas [or Aineias]
005-09-1-03109

10. Antithrombin III deficiency can be treated using the "fresh frozen" variety of this substance, which
prominently features albumin. The hematocrit is found by taking one hundred percent and subtracting the
volume fraction of this liquid, which is known as serum if it does not contain clotting factors. It is separated
using a centrifuge. For 10 points, name this yellow liquid that makes up slightly over half of the volume of
blood.
ANSWER: plasma
040-09-1-03110

VHSL Regular Season Round 3 Page 2 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

11. Some hymns of this religion address its first convert, King Vishtaspa. A now-dead branch of this religion
worshiped an indifferent god named Zurvan. Indian practitioners of this religion are known as Parsees. The
sacred scripture of this religion includes a section on how to ward off demons called the Vendidad, as well as
many hymns called the Gathas. This religion's dead are exposed to open air in Towers of Silence. Members
of this religion believe in a god of darkness called Ahriman, who opposes the good god Ahura Mazda. For
10 points, name this dualistic faith that started in Iran.
ANSWER: Zoroastrianism [or Zarathustrianism; accept Mazdaism before "Ahura Mazda" is read; accept
Parsees or word forms before it is read]
026-09-1-03111

12. The lawyer Tribonian revised the laws of this empire. This empire was divided into provinces named
"themes." Rulers of this empire were protected by the Varangian Guard, which was composed of Vikings.
The historian Procopius wrote a Secret History of this empire. Dynasties of this empire include the Isaurian
and the Comneni. This empire employed the general Belisarius during the reign of Theodora and Justinian.
The capital of this empire fell to Ottoman forces in 1453. For 10 points, name this empire with capital at
Constantinople.
ANSWER: Byzantine Empire [or Eastern Roman Empire; or Byzantium]
021-09-1-03112

13. Fast methods for performing this function operate in O(n log n) (read: big "oh" of n log n) time, and
include the "merge" and "binary tree" methods. The most common method to do this steps through an array,
interchanging adjacent elements repeatedly until no changes are made on one full trip, called the "bubble"
method. For 10 points, name this common operation, the act of interchanging members of a list until they are
in a pre-defined order.
ANSWER: sorting
022-09-1-03113

14. This author claimed to be "Done with the compass - Done with the chart!" in "Wild Nights - Wild
Nights!" and described feeling "zero at the bone" after meeting a snake in "A narrow fellow in the grass". In
another poem, she called herself "inebriate of air" after describing how she used "Tankards scooped in Pearl"
to "taste a liquor never brewed". A poem by this author of "I heard a Fly buzz - when I died" notes that the
title figure "kindly stopped for me". For 10 points, identify this "Belle of Amherst", the author of "Because I
could not stop for Death".
ANSWER: Emily Elizabeth Dickinson
029-09-1-03114

15. One argument against this document claimed that it would be a "parchment barrier." This document was
based on a similar declaration written by George Mason, a "father" of this document. Originally containing
twelve articles, this document was argued against by men like Alexander Hamilton in the Federalist Papers.
One article in this document gives the power of eminent domain and protects against double jeopardy. For
10 points, name this first set of amendments to the U.S. Constitution, which was introduced by James
Madison.
ANSWER: Bill of Rights [or first ten amendments to the Constitution; or equivalents]
023-09-1-03115

VHSL Regular Season Round 3 Page 3 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Regular Season
Round 3
Directed Round
1A. He is the leader of the Forza Italia party. Name this rival of Romano Prodi and current Prime Minister of
Italy.
ANSWER: Silvio Berlusconi
1B. He used AC generators at Niagara falls to produce power for Buffalo, New York. Name this inventor of
the railroad airbrake, who won the "Battle of the Currents" with the help of Tesla.
ANSWER: George Westinghouse
2A. Name the nineteen-line poetic form, utilized in "One Art" by Elizabeth Bishop and in Dylan Thomas's
"Do Not Go Gentle into that Good Night."
ANSWER: villanelle
2B. He depicted a pitchfork stuck in the ground next to two farm workers praying in The Angelus. Name this
French artist of The Gleaners.
ANSWER: Jean-Francois Millet
3A. It has D and F layers and its E layer is also known as the Kennelly-Heaviside layer. Name this charged
layer of the atmosphere that can affect radio waves.
ANSWER: Ionosphere
3B. What subject of a James Boswell biography wrote the 1755 Dictionary of the English Language?
ANSWER: Samuel Johnson
4A.This is a 10-second calculation question. If a rectangle is twice as long as it is wide, and its perimeter is
48 feet, find the dimensions of the rectangle.
ANSWER: eight by sixteen feet [or length of sixteen and width of eight feet or equivalents]
4B.This is a 10-second calculation question. If y varies directly with x, and y = 24 when x = 16, find y when
x = 24.
ANSWER: 36
5A. Followed by "de terre" it means potato. What is this French word for "apple?"
ANSWER: pomme
5B. Name the curve from supply-side economics which demonstrates the possibility of situations in which
lowering taxes can increase government revenue.
ANSWER: Laffer Curve
6A.This is a 20-second calculation question. Factor: x2 + 2x - 24.
ANSWER: (x+6)(x-4)
VHSL Regular Season Round 3 Page 4 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6B.This is a 20-second calculation question. Convert 31/40 to decimal notation.
ANSWER: 0.775
7A. Amonton's Laws were an early description of what force, which has static and kinetic varieties and can
be reduced with lubricants?
ANSWER: friction
7B. During this stage, chromatin condenses into a chromosome. Name this predecessor of metaphase, the
first phase of mitosis.
ANSWER: Prophase
8A. This group sings about "Santa Monica,Where tricks are for kids" in one song. Name this Rivers
Cuomo-fronted band whose songs include "Buddy Holly," "Beverly Hills," and "Pork and Beans."
ANSWER: Weezer
8B. He was nominated by George H.W. Bush to replace William Brennan. Name this Supreme Court
Justice, whose 2009 retirement prompted the appointment of Sonia Sotomayor.
ANSWER: David Souter
9A.This is a 30-second calculation question. If there are six people in a race, how many different
possibilities are there for the ordered list of the top three finishers?
ANSWER: 120
9B.This is a 30-second calculation question. A certain video game costs 50 cents to play and runs for a
minute and a half. If a player does not win any free games, how much will it cost to play for an hour?
ANSWER: $20.00
10A. It surrounds Angel de la Guarda (AHN-hell day lah GWAR-duh) and Tiburon Island. Name this body
of water between the Baja (BAH-hah) Peninsula and Mexico.
ANSWER: Gulf of California
10B. Its first three seasons focus on the Baltimore Police Department's attempts to derail the Barksdale
Organization. Name this HBO crime drama, which ended in 2008.
ANSWER: The Wire

VHSL Regular Season Round 3 Page 5 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Regular Season
Round 3
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. This law is often illustrated using a diagram dubbed its namesake "triangle," which has three chemical
compounds at its vertices. The Born-Haber cycle is an application of this law to find lattice energy. It is used
to find the enthalpy change of a chemical reaction by breaking it down into a set of smaller reactions. For 10
points, name this law, which is alternately called the law of constant heat summation, and which states that
the enthalpy change of a chemical reaction is independent of the reaction's pathway.
ANSWER: Hess's Law [accept law of constant heat summation before it is read]
026-09-1-03117

2. In a recent novel by this author, Susan Barton joins Friday and Cruso on an island before trying to have
the title character Foe write her story. The Magistrate narrates another novel by this man, in which his town
is invaded by a group from the Third Bureau, led by Colonel Joll. In another work by this man, a hare-lipped
gardener gardener carries his mother's ashes from Cape Town to Prince Albert. For 10 points, name this
author of Waiting for the Barbarians and The Life and Times of Michael K, a Nobel laureate from South
Africa.
ANSWER: John Maxwell Coetzee
038-09-1-03118

3. This system interacts with the Worthington and North Recirculating Gyres. An example of a western
boundary current, it is responsible for the western isolation of the Sargasso Sea. Its namesake rings can be
either warm- or cold-core, depending on the direction of the eddy. For 10 points, name this ocean current
that starts in the Gulf of Mexico, proceeds past Cape Hatteras and warms western Europe.
ANSWER: Gulf Stream
001-09-1-03119

4. This man served as political advisor to Marshal Andrey Yeremenko during the siege of Stalingrad, and he
received the Order of Lenin for his supervision of the completion of the Moscow subway system. He
assumed power by outmaneuvering Georgy Malenkov, and he made a speech to the 20th Party Congress that
denounced the excesses of Stalin's rule. For 10 points name this leader of the Soviet Union during the Cuban
Missile Crisis who was succeeded in power by Leonid Brezhnev.
ANSWER: Nikita Khrushchev
030-09-1-03120

5. This man discovered a method of determining the maximum number of positive and negative roots a
polynomial can have, which is known as his namesake rule of signs. He is considered to have founded
analytic geometry by publishing his La Geometrie, and created the x, y, z axis notation on the standard
rectangular coordinate system, which is also sometimes named for him. For 10 points, name this French
mathematician and philosopher who may be better known for the statement "I think, therefore I am."
ANSWER: Rene Descartes
025-09-1-03121

6. One character in this opera reflects on his childhood after looking at the ruins of his house in the aria Asile
héreditaire. That character Arnold falls in love with the Princess Mathilde. The overture to this work
features the Ranz des Vaches, and the protagonist is captured by Gessler after refusing to bow to a hat. This
opera is famed for the cavalry charge from its overture and the hero sings Sois immobile telling his son to be
still. For 10 points, name this Rossini work about a Swiss hero who is forced to shoot an apple off of his
son's head.
ANSWER: William Tell [or Guillaume Tell]
015-09-1-03122
VHSL Regular Season Round 3 Page 6 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

7. According to legends, bees formed when this god's tears hit the desert sand. This god once punished
humanity by sending the vengeful goddess Sekhmet. The cow-headed fertility goddess Hathor is called the
eye of this god. At night, this god turns into a giant cat in order to slay the serpent Apophis or Apep, who
attacks this god's boat in the underworld in an attempt to destroy the sun. For 10 points, name this Egyptian
sun god, who was eventually combined with Amun.
ANSWER: Ra [or Re; or Amon-Ra; or Amon-Re]
021-09-1-03123

8. This character gives a stag, a boar, and a fox to one character in exchange for six kisses. He nicks that
character for keeping quiet about a magical sash, and reveals himself to be Bertilak. This character orders a
man to the Green Chapel a year after their first encounter, before describing himself as being conjured by
Morgan Le Fey to test the Round Table. For ten points, name this character written about by the Pearl Poet
that invites anyone to decapitate him, a character paired with Sir Gawain in the title of a long poem.
ANSWER: The Green Knight [or Bertilak until mentioned]
033-09-1-03124

9. One version of this painting includes five putti flying over the central character, who is reclining on the
sea, and was painted by Alexandre Cabanel. The rightmost figure in this painting is a horae who extends a
red flowered cloak to the title figure. In this painting, Chloris is clinging to Zephyrus, who blows the central
character to shore. That character in this painting holds her orange hair by her hips, and stands on a
clamshell. For 10 points, name this painting in which the goddess of love emerges on a shore, a work by
Sandro Botticelli.
ANSWER: The Birth of Venus
024-09-1-03125

10. This war broke out in part due to reaction against the actions of General Weyler. Pulitzer and Hearst’s
yellow journalism is often credited with bringing one side into this war. Ended by the Treaty of Paris, this
war included Admiral George Dewey's victory in Manila Bay. This conflict was sparked in part by the
sinking of the USS Maine in Havana Harbor. For 10 points, name this war which led to the transfer of
control of Guam, which also included the exploits of the Rough Riders at the Battle of San Juan Hill.
ANSWER: Spanish-American War
030-09-1-03126

11. This man names an effect in which a light beam's plane of polarization is rotated by a magnetic field. He
also names a law which relates the curl of the electric field to the time derivative of the magnetic field.
Another law named for this man can have a negative sign introduced by Lenz's law, and that law shows how
a change in magnetic flux can induce an emf. This inventor of the dynamo also names the SI unit of
capacitance. For 10 points, name this Englishman whose namesake law of induction is one of Maxwell's
equations.
ANSWER: Michael Faraday
028-09-1-03127

12. This author, who founded the monthly review Les Temps Modernes (lay temm mah-DERNZ) with his
lover and Merleau-Ponty, wrote about a scholar in Bouville who tries to distract himself from a peculiar
sensation by reading Balzac and studying the Marquis de Rollebon. After talking with the Self-Taught Man
at a café, that character, Antoine Roquetin, accepts that his existence is the cause of his nausea. In one play
by this author, Garcin, Inez, and Estelle torture each other after their death and bring about the revelation
that “Hell is other people.” For 10 points, what French existentialist penned Being and Nothingness and No
Exit?
ANSWER: Jean-Paul Sartre
034-09-1-03128
VHSL Regular Season Round 3 Page 7 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

13. The third movement of this composer's second piano sonata in B-flat minor contains an often-performed
funeral march. This composer popularized a musical form developed by John Field with his short piano
nocturnes, and wrote an etude played only on black keys. This Romantic composer predominantly composed
pieces for the piano such as the Heroic Polonaise, the Fantasie-Improptu in C sharp minor, and the
Revolutionary Etude. For 10 points, name this nineteenth century Polish composer of the Minute Waltz.
ANSWER: Frédéric François Chopin
004-09-1-03129

14. This nation joined a military alliance with Germany under the leadership of Risto Ryti. Another leader of
this nation gave his name to a string of fortifications called the Mannerheim Line. This nation saw fighting
in its Lapland province during World War II. A 1975 accord between the United States and much of Europe
was held in this nation. This nation fought over the Karelian isthmus in the Continuation War against the
Soviet Union, which invaded it in 1939. The Winter War was fought by, for 10 points, what Scandinavian
nation with capital Helsinki?
ANSWER: Republic of Finland [or Suomen Tasavalta]
035-09-1-03130

15. This author wrote a poem that describes the “Great chieftain o' the puddin-race!” That poem is often
read on his birthday, January 25, before eating his namesake “supper.” In addition to penning “My Love is
Like a Red, Red Rose” and “Address to a Haggis,” this author described a "crawling wonder" and a "Small,
sleek, cowering, timorous beast" in two poems about small animals, “To a Louse” and “To a Mouse.” For
10 points, identify this national poet of the Scots dialect, who also wrote the New Year’s song “Auld Lang
Syne.”
ANSWER: Robert Burns
019-09-1-03131

VHSL Regular Season Round 3 Page 8 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Regular Season
Round 3
Tiebreaker Questions
1. Cationic compounds containing members of this group are easily bonded to crown ethers. Bose-Einstein
condensates were first discovered in one element of this group. Another member of this atomic group is used
to treat bipolar disorder. Its most commonly found member violently reacts with water, and forms an ionic
bond with chloride in table salt. It is the leftmost group on the periodic table. For 10 points, name this group
of elements including rubidium, cesium, lithium, and sodium, which is found next to a similar group of
"earth metals."
ANSWER: alkali metals [or alkalis or other word forms; or Group 1; do not accept "alkaline metals" or
"alkaline earth metals"]
026-09-1-03132

2. One work in this collection ends with the statement “Degenerate sons and daughters,/ Life is too strong
for you-/ It takes life to love life.” One character in this work is the village poetess Minerva Jones, who
wishes to have her works published, and Trainor is the town druggist in this work. Lucinda Matlock is a
resident of the titular location, and this collection opens with the poem “The Hill,” which is where all the
characters can be found. It includes a description of Abraham Lincoln’s boyhood love Ann Rutledge. For 10
points, name this collection of epigrams about dead residents of the title city by Edgar Lee Masters.
ANSWER: Spoon River Anthology
027-09-1-03133

3. This woman analyzed what she called “the problem that has no name” in her landmark book. She was a
founder of the pro-choice organization NARAL. Her major book was based on a 1957 survey that she
mailed to her graduating class from Smith College, which found that many of her female contemporaries
were unsatisfied as housewives. She went on to co-found the National Organization for Women to change
the conditions identified in her 1963 book. For 10 points, name this feminist who died in 2006, forty-three
years after writing The Feminine Mystique.
ANSWER: Betty Friedan [or Bettye Naomi Goldstein]
019-09-1-03134

4. The city of Manaus (mah-NOW-us) marks the endpoint of large commercial shipping on this river.
Francisco de Orellana (oh-ray-YAH-nuh) was one of the first people to explore this river; later, Alexander
von Humboldt found that the Casiquiare (KA-see-kee-AH-ray) River connects it to the Orinoco. This
waterway is the namesake of the largest species of river dolphin, has major tributaries called the Madeira
and Rio Negro, and originates in the Peruvian Andes before flowing across northern Brazil. For 10 points,
identify this South American river which, in volume of water and area of drainage, is the world’s largest.
ANSWER: Amazon River [or Rio Amazonas; or Río Marañón; or Rio Solimões]
019-09-1-03135

5. The free nerve endings of nocireceptors (NOY-suh-ree-sep-torz) are responsible for producing this
feeling, which is controlled by the dorsal column and medial lemniscus (lem-NIHS-cuss). Substance P is an
inhibitory neurotransmitter on the pathway transmitting this feeling. Release of substance P is blocked by
endorphins to reduce this. It can also be reduced by opiates, such as morphine, or by analgesics. For 10
points, identify this unpleasant feeling that often results from getting hurt.
ANSWER: pain
003-09-1-03136

VHSL Regular Season Round 3 Page 9 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

