VHSL Regular Season
Round 13
First Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. In one poem by this author, the speaker experiences the "perfect silence" of the outdoors after walking out
on the proofs and figures of the "learned astronomer." Another poem by this author describes the "filament,
filament, filament" launched by "the noiseless patient spider." This author of "Out of the Cradle Endlessly
Rocking" wrote a poem wherein the speaker sounds "a barbaric yawp over the roofs of the world," a poem
beginning "I celebrate myself, and sing myself." For 10 points, name this author of Song of Myself, who
collected all of those poems in Leaves of Grass.
ANSWER: Walter Whitman
026-09-1-13101

2. This city was the center for the work of Hans and Sophie Scholl during their time in the White Rose. One
meeting in this city was interrupted by supporters of Erich Ludendorff in the Beer Hall Putsch, led by Adolf
Hitler. A conference held in this city produced a namesake agreement that led Neville Chamberlain to
believe "peace in our time" had been achieved. During one event in this city, operatives of Black September
killed a group of people. For 10 points, name this German city whose 1972 Olympics included the murder of
Israeli athletes.
ANSWER: Munich [or München]
023-09-1-13102

3. This man wrote a play in which James Joyce gets help writing Ulysses from a woman in love with Tristan
Tzara, Travesties. This author of The Coast of Utopia also wrote about a murder mystery within a play in a
work about theater critics named Birdboot and Moon called The Real Inspector Hound. Septimus Hodge
falls in love with his genius 13-year-old student, Thomasina, in one play. Another of his plays opens with a
long series of heads-up coin tosses and ends with the disappearance of the two title characters, who are
drawn from Shakespeare's Hamlet. For 10 points, name this playwright of Arcadia and Rosencrantz and
Guildenstern Are Dead.
ANSWER: Tom Stoppard [or Tomas Straussler]
032-09-1-13103

4. One way of measuring this is equivalent to the mass mixing ratio, while the volumetric measurement is
not usually used. One simplified device for measuring it is the psychrometer, which consists of two
thermometers and comparing the current conditions to those of saturated air at the same temperature yields
the relative measure of this. That saturation point is known as the dew point and using both temperature and
this measurement allows one to calculate the heat index. For 10 points, identify this measure of how much
moisture is in the air.
ANSWER: humidity [or relative humidity]
001-09-1-13104

5. This river plunges through the Five Finger Rapids in its headwaters, where it is joined by the Teslin River
after flowing from Atlin and Tagish Lakes. The Porcupine River is a tributary of this river, which flows into
Lake Laberge. A namesake trail from Skagway to Dawson was used during the Klondike Gold Rush. It runs
through Whitehorse and flows north of Fairbanks. For 10 points, name this river that runs through Alaska
and a namesake Canadian territory.
ANSWER: Yukon River
036-09-1-13105

VHSL Regular Season Round 13 Page 1 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. This author created shoemaker Ralph Spencer, who is actually safecracker Jimmy Valentine, in “A
Retrieved Reformation.” The title of one collection of his stories refers to the population of New York, The
Four Million. In one of this author's stories, Bill Driscoll and Sam Howard end up giving 250 dollars to
Ebenezer Dorset, whose son believes himself to be on a camping trip and styles himself "Red Chief." In his
best known story, Jim and Della sell their watch and hair to buy each other gifts pertaining to their watch
and hair. For 10 points, name this author of "The Gift of the Magi," known for his frequent twist endings.
ANSWER: O. Henry [or William Sidney Porter; prompt on Porter]
019-09-1-13106

7. Guillaume de Mauchaut wrote one of these compositions named for Notre Dame that was the first one of
these composed. Ones by composers like Josquin used the cantus firmus L'homme armé. Most settings of
this end with the statement "Grant us peace" in the "Agnus Dei," and they open with a "Kyrie." Palestrina
wrote one named after Pope Marcellus. Bach composed one in B minor despite being a Lutheran. They also
include settings of the "Gloria," "Sanctus," and the Nicene Creed, and ones for the dead are named
"Requiems." For 10 points, name this weekly Catholic ritual, which is often set to music.
ANSWER: Masses ordinary [or missa; or ordinary masses]
027-09-1-13107

8. One character in this novel contracts scarlet fever from the Hummel family's baby. Another character in
this novel marries Mr. Brooke, and a third character inherits Plumfield and marries Professor Bhaer. This
novel is named for the daughters of Marmee, the sisters Amy, Beth, Meg, and Jo Marsh. For 10 points, name
this novel written by Louisa May Alcott.
ANSWER: Little Women
004-09-1-13108

9. 2,4-DNP is an example of an uncoupler used by this organelle. The color of brown fat is due to the high
concentration of this organelle, which is responsible for generating heat in that tissue. One can trace
matrilineal descent through this organelle's DNA. Like the chloroplast, this double-membraned organelle is
the subject of the endosymbiotic hypothesis. For 10 points, name this site of oxidative phosphorylation, the
energy-producing organelle.
ANSWER: mitochondria
003-09-1-13109

10. This opera’s first act opens with the opening of the “Star-Spangled Banner.” One character buys a 999
year lease on a home before meeting the consul Sharpless. In this opera, the title character sings “Un Bel di
Vedremo.” After being forced to give up her son Sorrow to Kate, the title character says farewell to her maid
Suzuki and kills herself before Lieutenant Pinkerton can stop her. For 10 points name this Giacomo Puccini
opera about Cio-Cio San's love of an American soldier in Japan.
ANSWER: Madame Butterfly
015-09-1-13110

11. One function exhibiting the "mu" type of this technique that isn't also of the "primitive" type is the
Ackermann function. The stack space used by this technique can be decreased by using the "tail" type of it.
It is often used to implement the factorial function, solve the Towers of Hanoi problem, and calculate the
Fibonacci sequence. For 10 points, name this programming technique, often contrasted with iteration, in
which a function calls itself.
ANSWER: recursion [or recursivity; or recursive functions; accept word forms]
029-09-1-13111

VHSL Regular Season Round 13 Page 2 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

12. One character of this play gets evicted from the Flamingo Hotel and fantasizes about Shep Huntleigh. In
one scene of this play, a character angrily throws a radio out of the window and leaves two women to seek
refuge with the upstairs neighbor Eunice. This play ends with Steve dealing a hand of poker, as one
character who yells "Fire!" to avoid having sex with Mitch is led to an asylum while saying that she has
"always depended on the kindness of strangers." For 10 points, name this play in which Stanley rapes his
wife Stella's sister, Blanche Dubois (doo BWAH), a work by Tennessee Williams.
ANSWER: A Streetcar Named Desire
032-09-1-13112

13. The current leader of this country was accused of tampering with election results after narrowly
defeating former movie star Fernando Poe, Jr., in the 2004 election. The Communist Party in this country
was made legal by the staunchly anti-communist Fidel Ramos. This country’s first civilian American
governor was William Howard Taft. This country's independence movement included figures such as José
Rizal and Emilio Aguinaldo, who fought against the United States and Spain. For 10 points, name this Asian
island country with a capital at Manila.
ANSWER: Republic of the Philippines [or Republika ng Pilipinas]
003-09-1-13113

14. The reaction used to synthesize this compound works best with an osmium catalyst, but iron is used
because it is more cost-effective. This material is oxidized in a reaction that uses a platinum-rhodium metal
gauze. That reaction, the Ostwald Process, is used to turn this compound into nitric acid. The industrial
process used to create this compound uses high pressure and heat to break the triple bond of its primary
ingredient, nitrogen gas. For 10 points, name this compound that is formed via the Haber-Bosch process, a
chemical with formula NH3.
ANSWER: ammonia [or hydrogen nitride; or Spirit of Hartshorn; or Nitro-Sil; or Vaporole; accept NH3
before it is read]
026-09-1-13114

15. This region's Khitans created the Liao Empire only to be overthrown by the Jin Dynasty of the Jurchens
during the 12th Century. The people of this region allied with Wu Sangui and were led by Nurhaci. After the
assassination of its warlord Zhang Zoulin in 1928, a Japanese invasion led to a puppet state here ruled by
Pu-Yi. In 1644, the people from this region came into power after the Ming Dynasty ended, and established
the Qing dynasty. For 10 points, name this northeastern region of China.
ANSWER: Manchuria
040-09-1-13115

VHSL Regular Season Round 13 Page 3 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Regular Season
Round 13
Directed Round
1A. Citrine, silica glass, and amethyst are all types of what rock, principally made of silicon dioxide, that
also has "smoky" and "rose" versions?
ANSWER: quartz
1B. The Pahari people of Nepal and the classical culture of Tibet were some of the few groups that engaged
in what specific form of polygamy, in which a woman is permitted to have multiple husbands?
ANSWER: polyandry [do not accept "polygyny"]
2A. "Masculine," "feminine," "complete," "incomplete," and "slant" are all types of what literary device?
ANSWER: rhyme [or rhyming or other word forms]
2B. A ninth-grade science teacher testified that a fourteen-year-old Philo Farnsworth had discovered the
basic principle of this technology. Identify this invention, which Farnsworth successfully won a patent on in
a 1939 lawsuit against RCA and Vladimir Zworykin.
ANSWER: television
3A. Conservative leader David Cameron and Liberal Democrat Nick Clegg are poised to challenge the
fading popularity of what current Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, who is legally obligated to call for
an election before June 2010?
ANSWER: James Gordon Brown
3B. Phytol (FYE-tawl) side chains branching off a porphyrin (POUR-fuh-rin) ring around a magnesium
atom comprise what molecule that absorbs blue and red light in photosynthesis, reflecting green light and
thus giving plants their color?
ANSWER: chlorophyll [do not accept "chloroplast"]
4A. This is a 10-second calculation question. You draw two cards at random from a standard poker deck of
52 cards. If the first card is a king, what is the probability that the second card is a queen?
ANSWER: 4/51
4B. This is a 10-second calculation question. When temperature is held constant, then P times V is also
constant. If P = 15 pascals when V = 20 liters, find P when V = 30 liters.
ANSWER: 10 pascals
5A. This phenomenon disappears above the Curie point. Identify this kind of magnetism that can occur in
nickel or cobalt, but is named for its presence in iron.
ANSWER: ferromagnetism [do not accept "antiferromagnetism"]
5B. In September 2009, a march in what country accused a neighboring country's president, Hugo Chavez,
of smuggling weapons across the border to this country's militant FARC movement?
ANSWER: Republic of Colombia [or Republica de Colombia]
VHSL Regular Season Round 13 Page 4 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6A. This is a 20-second calculation question. To the nearest penny, how much would you pay for 3 gallons
of gasoline at $2.429 (two dollars and 42.9 cents) per gallon?
ANSWER: $7.29
6B. This is a 20-second calculation question. If 5a - 3b = 8c, and a = 9 and c = 2, find b.
ANSWER: 29/3 [or 9 2/3]
7A. Joe Theismann, Doug Williams, and Mark Rypien are the three men who have won the Super Bowl
while playing for what position and team?
ANSWER: quarterback for the Washington Redskins [or quarterback for Washington; accept obvious
equivalents; prompt if only one of the correct answers is given]
7B. Serena's incorporation into Blair's social circle is the basic plot of what CW show, that stars Blake
Lively and Leighton Meester and adapts an eponymous series of books by Cecily von Ziegesar?
ANSWER: Gossip Girl
8A. In 1968, he stated that, "In the future, everyone will be world-famous for 15 minutes." Later that year,
Valerie Solanas claimed her 15 minutes by shooting him. Name this American "pop artist," who painted
Marilyn Monroe and Campbell's soup cans.
ANSWER: Andy Warhol [or Andrew Warhola]
8B. Though scholars more often praise his Blood Meridian, what contemporary author achieved more
popular success with The Road, All the Pretty Horses, and No Country For Old Men?
ANSWER: Cormac McCarthy [or Charles McCarthy]
9A. This is a 30-second calculation question. If theta is an angle in the second quadrant with sine theta equal
to 3/5, what is the tangent of theta?
ANSWER: -3/4
9B. This is a 30-second calculation question. A company normally sells widgets at 75 cents each, but if you
buy more than 25, you get a 10% discount. What would be the total cost of buying 30 widgets?
ANSWER: $20.25
10A. Angola and the island of Macau are some of the locations where this is a majority language. Identify
this originally European language, whose largest concentration of speakers is found in Brazil.
ANSWER: Portuguese [or Português]
10B. Djibouti, Eritrea, Ethiopia, and Somalia comprise what piracy-stricken region with a musical-sounding
name?
ANSWER: the horn of Africa

VHSL Regular Season Round 13 Page 5 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Regular Season
Round 13
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. This artist had a falling-out over the use of diagonal lines with Theo van Doesburg, the founder of the
movement with which he is associated. This artist named that style "neoplasticism," and used a gigantic red
square and some smaller rectangles separated by horizontal lines in his Composition in Red, Blue and Yellow
. The best known work of this artist was inspired by the city grid of New York and depicts motion
reminiscent of a kind of dance music. For 10 points, name this Dutch artist, a member of the De Stijl (Duh
Style) movement and painter of Broadway Boogie Woogie,
ANSWER: Pieter Cornelis "Piet" Mondrian
024-09-1-13117

2. Fighting during this battle included a bombardment of the Miller cornfield as well as fighting for control
of the sunken road known as Bloody Lane. The division of one side's forces before this battle was
discovered by B.W. Mitchell in a piece of paper wrapped around three cigars, known as Special Order 191.
This battle gave Abraham Lincoln the proper mood to announce his preliminary Emancipation Proclamation.
For 10 points, name this battle fought in Maryland between the forces of McClellan and Lee, the bloodiest
day of fighting during the Civil War.
ANSWER: Battle of Antietam [or Battle of Sharpsburg]
023-09-1-13118

3. WRITE MORE QUESTIONS, Particularly a Social Science-Linguistics Tossup
00--20-13119

4. This country was the location of the Don Pacifico affair, which occurred during the rule of a German put
on the throne by the Convention of London, King Otto. During this country's fight for independence, around
twenty thousand people were killed in a massacre on the island of Chios and Lord Byron died fighting here.
Earlier groups in this modern country fought the Battles of Salamis and Thermopylae against invading
Persians. For 10 points, name this country that, in ancient times, was known for city-states like Corinth,
Sparta, and Athens.
ANSWER: Greece [or Hellenic Republic; or Ellinikí Dhimokratía]
023-09-1-13120

5. One type of this disease is caused by a mutation in the RB gene and a loss of heterozygosity, meaning no
functional Rb protein is produced. Another type was found by Peyton Rous to be caused by a retrovirus, and
this disease often begins with a gain-of-function mutation in a proto-oncogene. Later stages of this type of
disease may involve the metastasis of a malignant tumor. For 10 points, name this unchecked proliferation of
mutated cells, forms of which include leukemia and those affecting the lung and skin.
ANSWER: cancer
003-09-1-13121

6. In novel by this man, a meal on Whitsuntide is arranged to lure away La Ramée and the Comte de
Rochefort is killed by a man he befriended and dueled. This author of Twenty Years After and The Vicomte
of Bragelonne wrote about the Man in the Iron Mask in a sequel to a book about Milady de Winter’s enmity
toward D’Artagnan, Athos, Porthos, and Aramis, and about Mercédès’s fiancée, who is condemned to life
imprisonment in the title island by Villefort. For 10 points, name this author of The Three Musketeers and
The Count of Monte Cristo.
ANSWER: Alexandre Dumas, père [or Dumas Davy de la Pailleterie]
020-09-1-13122

VHSL Regular Season Round 13 Page 6 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

7. This process is used on beams of neutrons to determine the surface structure of thin films. Its diffuse form
is modeled well by a Lambertian model, in which intensity is directly proportional to the emission angle and
so perceived radiance is constant. For a given polarization, this phenomenon is minimized at Brewster's
angle. Above the critical angle, a "total internal" variety of this phenomenon occurs. For 10 points, name this
phenomenon in which a wavefront changes direction at an interface between two media so that it returns to
the first medium, which takes place with mirrors.
ANSWER: reflection
022-09-1-13123

8. This man delivered a famed 1820 speech commemorating the landing of the Mayflower. This politician
argued for his alma mater in the case Dartmouth v. Woodward. This man argued against nullification in his
1830 debate with Robert Hayne. As Secretary of State, this man was the only cabinet member to carry over
from William Henry Harrison to John Tyler’s administration. For 10 points, name this famous orator and
politician, who negotiated a treaty that settled the Maine-Canada boundary with Baron Ashburton.
ANSWER: Daniel Webster
030-09-1-13124

9. One author from this country wrote about Jesuit missionary Sebastian Rodrigues in his novel Silence. A
woodcutter and bandit offer conflicting accounts of a murder in "In a Grove", whose author names the
highest literary prize of this nation. A Nobel laureate from this country wrote A Personal Matter and The
Silent Cry. The author of Confessions of a Mask and the Sea of Fertility tetralogy is from this country, as is
the eleventh century court lady who wrote The Tale of Genji. For 10 points, name this homeland of Yukio
Mishima and Lady Murasaki.
ANSWER: Japan [or Nippon-koku; or Nihon-koku]
012-09-1-13125

10. Operation Cyclone was designed to weaken this country. This country was administrated partly by the
GOSPLAN. During World War II, this country launched Operation Uranus and won the Battle of Kursk.
This country invaded one of its neighbors after the Saur Revolution, though it was defeated by the
mujahideen. After a period of perestroika and glasnost, this country collapsed in 1991 and was replaced by
the CIS. For 10 points, name this rival of the United States and NATO during the Cold War.
ANSWER: Soviet Union [or Sovetsky Soyuz; or Union of Soviet Socialist Republics; or USSR; or CCCP
; or Soyuz Sovetskikh Sotsialisticheskikh Respublik]
021-09-1-13126

11. One of the first incidents related in this novel is a card game played by forming latrine boxes into a table.
As Kemmerich is dying from an infected leg wound in this novel, he gives his boots to Müller. The central
characters of this novel are recruited by the teacher Kantorek and trained by the harsh Corporal
Himmelstoss. The title phrase is the only content of the official army report on the day that the protagonist of
this novel, Paul Bäumer, is killed. For 10 points, name this novel about the average German soldier in World
War I, written by Erich Maria Remarque.
ANSWER: All Quiet On The Western Front [or Im Westen nichts Neues]
019-09-1-13127

12. This god's brother Anteros was worshipped in Athens following the deaths of Meles and Timagoras. In
one creation myth, his coupling with Chaos produced the birds. By one lover, he gave birth to the goddess
Voluptas or Hedone. This god banished one of his lovers when her curiosity caused her to spill lamp oil on
him. He is the lover of Psyche and daughter of Aphrodite. For 10 points, name this classical god of love,
often depicted flying with angelic wings and wielding a magic bow and arrow.
ANSWER: Eros [or Cupid]
015-09-1-13128
VHSL Regular Season Round 13 Page 7 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

13. Edward Chace Tolman formulated the "purposive" branch of this school. Another member of this school
wrote Animal Intelligence and researched how cats escaped from puzzle boxes. In addition to Edward
Thorndike, another member of this school conducted the Little Albert experiment and claimed to be able to
train an infant to "become any type of specialist." For 10 points, name this school of psychology associated
with John B. Watson and B.F. Skinner, which attempts to study the actions of animals and humans.
ANSWER: behaviorism
024-09-1-13129

14. By Fubini's theorem, multiple instances of this operator can be performed in any order, and performing it
on a product of functions can be done "by parts." Using the disk or shell methods, one can use this operator
to find the volume of a solid of revolution. First defined rigorously by Bernhard Riemann, this operator can
be described graphically as finding the area under the graph of a function. For 10 points, name this function,
which by the Fundamental Theorem of Calculus is the inverse function of differentiation.
ANSWER: integration [or integral]
025-09-1-13130

15. A book about a journey on this route was the first bestseller for popular historian Francis Parkman.
Marcus Whitman led the "great migration" along this route. Landmarks on this route included Fort Bridger,
Fort Hall, and Soda Springs. Twelve thousand people used this route to settle in the Columbia River Valley.
This route started at Independence, Missouri and moved westward through Kansas, Nebraska, and
Wyoming, where it shared stretches with the Mormon Trail. For 10 points, identify this settler route to a
namesake Western U.S. territory.
ANSWER: Oregon Trail
019-09-1-13131

VHSL Regular Season Round 13 Page 8 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Regular Season
Round 13
Tiebreaker Questions
1. If an alternate loop structure is present, these entities can terminate early in a process known as
attenuation. The mechanism of their function was discovered by Jacob and Monod. Translational repressors
of these entities contrast with their transcriptional repressors, which bind to the operator site. They also have
promoter sites, where RNA polymerase binds. In E. coli, one of them facilitates the transport and production
of lactose. For 10 points, name these sequences of prokaryotic DNA that regulate expression of related
genes, including the trp (trip) and lac types.
ANSWER: operons
026-09-1-13132

2. This composer's first symphony was originally for organ. Eugene Goossens commissioned a
brass-and-percussion piece by this composer that he would later incorporate into the finale of his Third
Symphony. One of this man's ballets contains the "Hoe-Down" movement. He composed a ballet
choreographed by Martha Graham that incorporates the Shaker hymn "Simple Gifts." For 10 points, name
this American composer of Rodeo, Fanfare for the Common Man, and Appalachian Spring.
ANSWER: Aaron Copland
026-09-1-13133

3. Barriers to entry are one way that existing firms can have the "incumbent" form of this, as compared to
new firms in a market. The ability to produce a good more efficiently in a national economy is its "absolute"
form. Two countries which produce more of two goods by respectively specializing in one and the other are
benefiting from another form of this, which was originally explained in terms of British cloth and
Portuguese wine by David Ricardo. For 10 points, give this economic term that appears in justifications of
international trade in its "comparative" form.
ANSWER: advantage
019-09-1-13134

4. This element is extracted by the Kroll process, and its dioxide exists as brookite and rutile. Its
tetrachloride is used in the Mukaiyama aldol reaction. It is used with sapphire in a red light laser. Along with
aluminum, this metal is found in Tebbe's reagent. Compounds of this element are used in the Ziegler-Natta
catalysts. It is used as a white pigment. For 10 points, name this element, atomic number 22 which us often
used in aerospace applications and has symbol Ti.
ANSWER: titanium [accept Ti before it is read]
001-09-1-13135

5. In this novel, a woman sings a fragment of a Gitterfenster opera in a bar, leading to a fight between Dim
and the protagonist. This novel begins in the Korova Milkbar, where the protagonist and his droogs spend
time speaking nadsat when the protagonist is not listening to Beethoven. After Dr. Brodsky administers the
Ludovico Technique, the protagonist of this novel becomes powerless and flees to F. Alexander. For 10
points, name this novel about the ultraviolent Alex in a futuristic totalitarian state, by Anthony Burgess.
ANSWER: A Clockwork Orange
036-09-1-13136

VHSL Regular Season Round 13 Page 9 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

