VHSL Regionals
Round 3
First Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. This region contains the Earth's only siderophile (sid-AIR-oaf-eye-el) elements not bonded to oxygen.
Eddy currents in one subsection of this region likely interact with its solid layer to create the earth's magnetic
field, a theory known as the geodynamo. The topmost portion of this region borders the D-double-prime
layer. The border between this region and a cooler, more viscous layer is called the Gutenberg discontinuity.
For 10 points, name this layer of the earth's interior that consists of "inner" and "outer" parts and lies below
the mantle.
ANSWER: the Earth's core [prompt on outer core until "solid layer"; prompt on inner core until "eddy
currents"; do not accept or prompt on either after those words are read]
032-09-7-03101

2. Job Shattuck and Luke Day were both prominent leaders of this event, which was one of the main causes
of James Bowdoin’s loss to John Hancock as governor. This event, which was largely carried out by
debtors, was defeated by Benjamin Lincoln at the Springfield Armory. It was one of the main causes of the
Philadelphia Convention, since it proved the dangerous weaknesses of the Articles of Confederation. For 10
points, name this 1786 uprising in Western Massachusetts led by the namesake farmer.
ANSWER: Shays’s Rebellion [do not accept or prompt on "Shay;" the person's name is Daniel Shays]
064-09-7-03102

3. One member of this team asked his Twitter followers, "Do 'woodchucks' really exist? If so, someone twit
me a pic." This team stood by idly as the Raptors' Jarrett Jack tied his shoes on the clock during a blowout.
This team, that goes on an annual "Circus" road trip, drafted a point guard whose SAT score got the
University of Memphis in trouble. Their roster includes Tyrus Thomas and Joakim (JOE-a-keem) Noah. For
10 points, name these United Center tenants whose roster stars Derrick Rose.
ANSWER: the Chicago Bulls [or Chicago Bulls]
026-09-7-03103

4. This author noted that "When one is tired of London, one is tired of life," and claimed that "Patriotism is
the last refuge of the scoundrel." This writer was the first to refer to John Donne and his contemporaries as
the metaphysical poets in his work Lives of the Most Eminent English Poets. This man wrote one work about
a trip he took to Scotland with a friend. A biography about this man was written by that friend, James
Boswell. For 10 points, name this English author of the Dictionary of the English Language.
ANSWER: Samuel Johnson
045-09-7-03104

5. This man's feats were recorded in an epic poem by Blind Harry. After his most famous victory, the skin of
Hugh Cressingham was used to make a belt for this man's sword. However, the loss of Andrew Murray at
that battle proved disastrous for this leader at the later Battle of Falkirk. This victor at Stirling Bridge was
declared an outlaw in 1304 and executed in 1305, making him a martyr for the Scottish cause. For 10 points,
name this man sometimes known as the "Braveheart."
ANSWER: William Wallace [prompt on Braveheart before it is read]
003-09-7-03105

VHSL Regionals Round 3 Page 1 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. Johann Lambert names a model of its diffuse form. None of this phenomenon occurs when the angle of
incidence with a boundary is Brewster's angle. Its "specular" form involves only one incoming and outgoing
direction. Its "total internal" form occurs in fiber-optic materials and occurs at angles above the critical angle
from the normal. Its "retro" form can be achieved by using three perpendicular mirrors. For 10 points, name
this phenomenon, in which light hits a surface and rebounds in the other direction.
ANSWER: reflection
022-09-7-03106

7. This person signaled his support for a loosening of censorship in his speech "On the Correct Handling of
Contradictions Among the People." This man's third wife became a key figure in the Gang of Four, which
helped this man organize the Red Guards in support of the Cultural Revolution. Earlier, this man was a key
figure in the Long March, which allowed his party to come to power and launch such programs as the Great
Leap Forward. For 10 points, name this politician who died in 1976 after twenty-seven years as the
Communist leader of China.
ANSWER: Mao Zedong [or Mao Tse-tung]
019-09-7-03107

8. The first step of this process involves the carboxylation (car-BOX-ill-AY-shun) of
ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate (RIB-yool-os "one, five" bye-FOSS-fate), leading to an unstable six carbon
molecule that splits and is eventually converted into glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate (gliss-er-AL-deh-hide
"three" FOSS-fate). Six of those G3P molecures are produced by this process's end. Its other products
include one carbon available to be converted into a sugar. Rubisco is a catalyst in, for 10 points, what cycle
of reactions that takes place in chloroplasts and are part of the dark reactions?
ANSWER: Calvin Cycle [prompt on dark reactions before it is read]
040-09-7-03108

9. The Kufa (KOO-fuh) version of this text settles on dividing it into 6,236 ayahs (eye-AHZ), the largest of
the four competing numbers. Other systems include a way to read it in one week, which divides it into seven
manazils (muh-NAH-zeelz), and a way to read it in a month, comprised of thirty juz (JEWZ). The most
frequently used chapterization of this book creates sections such as "The Key" and "The Cow," called suras
(SOO-rahz). For 10 points, name this sacred text which was revealed in the early seventh century by Gabriel
to Muhammad, in Islamic belief.
ANSWER: al-Quran [or The Koran]
019-09-7-03109

10. This poet started an epic in Latin about Masinissa (MASS-in-ISS-uh), Sophonisba (SEW-fon-IZ-buh),
and Scipio Africanus, entitled Africa. This author of the "Letter to Posterity" wrote the biographical
collection Concerning Famous Men. This poet of the Canzoniere (CON-zo-NAY-ray) mentored Boccaccio
(boh-CAH-chee-oh) and addressed many of his poems to his beloved Laura. For 10 points, name this
Renaissance Italian poet who wrote in the vernacular rather than Latin, and perfected a namesake type of
sonnet divided into sections of eight and six lines.
ANSWER: Petrarch [or Francesco Petrarca]
063-09-7-03110

11. Motoo [moe-TOE-oh] Kimura's neutral theory states that this phenomenon is the main cause of
molecular evolution. In one type of this phenomenon, a small number of individuals start a new population;
that type is known as the founder effect and can result from a population bottleneck. Its effects are greater in
small populations, and it is one of the influences which can cause deviation from Hardy-Weinberg
equilibrium. For 10 points, name this phenomenon involving chance variations in allele frequency.
ANSWER: genetic drift [or allelic drift]
024-09-7-03111
VHSL Regionals Round 3 Page 2 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

12. This battle saw the early death of Ariabignes (err-ee-AA-big-neez) and a feint attack to escape Ameinias
(aa-MAIN-ee-as), inspiring the losing commander to note "my men have become women, and my women
men." The losers of this battle included Mardonius and Queen Artemisia. This battle was fought betweem
Artemisium and Mycale (mee-CAL-ay) respectively. The victors in this battle, led by Themistocles
(thuh-MIST-oh-cleez), defeated a larger fleet off an island near Athens. For 10 points, name this major
Greek naval victory in the Persian Wars.
ANSWER: Battle of Salamis
020-09-7-03112

13. In one novel by this author, the Magistrate attempts to return a crippled, blinded girl to her people
following Colonel Joll's brutality. This author of Waiting for the Barbarians wrote about Lucy welcoming
her father David Lurie to her home, after David loses his job as a professor for seducing a student. For 10
points, name this South African author of Disgrace and a work about a harelipped gardener, Life & Times of
Michael K.
ANSWER: John Maxwell Coetzee
022-09-7-03113

14. Central to this type of device is an actuator, also called a voice coil. On Windows machines, these
hardware pieces use FAT32 or NTFS file systems. Virtual memory allows the computer to store pages on
these as opposed to RAM. The use of multiple ones is allowed via RAID technology, and most modern ones
use the Serial ATA interface. For 10 points, name this piece of computer hardware, which consists of a
read-write head and a series of platters and has a capacity typically measured in gigabytes.
ANSWER: hard drive [or hard disk drive; or HDD]
026-09-7-03114

15. The Palermo stone is an early record of the existence of this deity, whose popularity skyrocketed after
the Ennead and Ogdoad merged. This deity's wife traveled to Byblos to find his body after his brother locked
him in a coffin and threw it into the river. A fish devoured one of his organs after this figure's outraged
brother chopped and dismembered him into fourteen pieces. Afterwards, this god was reassembled with the
missing part replaced by gold by that wife, Isis. For 10 points, name this Egyptian god of the dead and father
of Horus.
ANSWER: Osiris [accept Usiris, Asar, Aser, Ausar, Ausar, Wesir, Usir, Usire, or Ausare]
002-09-7-03115

VHSL Regionals Round 3 Page 3 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Regionals
Round 3
Directed Round
1A. Name the river, south of the Potomac, which crosses the northern part of Virginia from Chester Gap in
the Blue Ridge Mountains to the Chesapeake Bay.
ANSWER: Rappahannock River
1B. What nation, once ruled by the Taliban, will soon be the target of a troop surge ordered by President
Obama?
ANSWER: Islamic Republic of Afghanistan [or Jomhuri-ye Eslami-ye Afghanestan]
2A. In what play by Thornton Wilder does the Stage Manager introduce the audience to Grover's Corners,
where George Gibbs and Emily Webb live?
ANSWER: Our Town
2B. An example of one type of structure this artist created is Flamingo, and an example of the other is
Lobster Trap and Fish Tail. Name this inventor of stabiles and mobiles.
ANSWER: Alexander Calder
3A. Described in part by General Circulation Models, this phenomenon is classified by the Koppen system.
What is this term for the average weather of a region?
ANSWER: climate
3B. What pop star's much-criticized dance at the 2009 Teen Choice Awards occurred during her
performance of "Party in the U.S.A."?
ANSWER: Miley Cyrus
4A. This is a 10-second calculation question. Find the least common multiple of 6, 9, and 15.
ANSWER: 90
4B. This is a 10-second calculation question. What is the amplitude of the function y = 3 plus 5 times the
cosine of 2x?
ANSWER: 5
5A. This critic argues that Falstaff represents self-satisfaction and Hamlet represents self-dissatisfaction.
Identify this author of The Anxiety of Influence.
ANSWER: Harold Bloom
5B. This poetic device has a "slant" form, where the words do not match perfectly in sound. Name this
phenomenon that also has "perfect" forms known as "masculine," "feminine," and "dactylic."
ANSWER: rhyme [or rhyming]
6A. This is a 20-second calculation question. Subtract: (7x3 - 5x2 - x - 6) -(x3 - 4x2 + 7).
ANSWER: 6x3 - x2 - x - 13
VHSL Regionals Round 3 Page 4 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6B. This is a 20-second calculation question. You drove 131.1 miles on 9.5 gallons of gas. What is your gas
mileage in miles per gallon?
ANSWER: 13.8
7A. Southern forms of this language use "halt" where the north and center use "eben" (AY-ben). Identify this
language with Pomeranian, Swabian, and Swiss dialects.
ANSWER: German [or Deutsch]
7B. What French biologist created a rabies vaccine and is the namesake of a process to kill microorganisms
in milk?
ANSWER: Louis Pasteur
8A. In December 2009, this team's current quarterback, Aaron Rodgers, alleged that Seattle Seahawks
defensive end Daryl Tapp bit him during a 2008 game. Name this team that faced the Arizona Cardinals in
the 2009 NFC playoffs.
ANSWER: Green Bay Packers [or Green Bay Packers]
8B. This condition results from a deficiency in hexosaminidase (HEX-ohs-uh-MEEN-id-aze) alpha, a
lysosomal (LYE-so-ZOH-mal) enzyme. Identify this disease, which causes a characteristic red spot on the
retina and usually causes death by age five.
ANSWER: Tay-Sachs disease
9A. This is a 30-second calculation question. Find the distance between the points (2, 2) and (4, 9).
ANSWER: square root of 53
9B. This is a 30-second calculation question. How many different distinguishable letter patterns can be
formed from the letters in the word VIRGINIA?
ANSWER: 6720
10A. Identify the principle that implies Fermat's principle of least time and states that every point on a
wavefront is a source of a new set of waves.
ANSWER: Huygens-Fresnel principle
10B. The changes in two forms of this quantity, named for Marshall and Hicks, are related by the Slutsky
equation. Name this quantity, which is represented by a curve that slopes downward from left to right.
ANSWER: demand

VHSL Regionals Round 3 Page 5 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Regionals
Round 3
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. This composer wrote a "Gardens in the Rain" for his piano suite suite Estampes (ay-STOMP). One of his
works has movements like "Nuages" (new-AHJ) and "Sirenes" (see-REN) and is called Nocturnes. One of
his works includes the movement "The Play of the Waves." This composer of Children's Corner wrote a
"Passepied" (pass-PY) for his Suite Bergamasque, which also contains a movement based on a Verlaine
poem that depicts moonlight. For 10 points, name this French impressionist composer of "La Mer" and
"Claire de Lune."
ANSWER: Achille-Claude Debussy
022-09-7-03117

2. This author wrote about Ernest Everhard's attempt to resist a fascist world takeover in The Iron Heel. One
short story by this author concerns a man whose failure to complete the title action causes that character's
death by freezing. In another of his novels, the murder of John Thornton by the Yeehat Indians causes Buck
to live in the wilderness. This man set many of his stories, including "To Build a Fire," in the Yukon. For 10
points, name this American author of The Call of the Wild.
ANSWER: Jack London [or John Griffith Chaney]
004-09-7-03118

3. In honor of an address given to this organization by Ralph Waldo Emerson, it publishes a journal called
The American Scholar. This group's name is said to have come from the initials of its Greek motto, which
roughly translates to "Philosophy, the guide of life." This honorary scholarship society began in 1776 as a
secret literary and social club. Founded at the College of William and Mary, it was the first-ever fraternity in
the U.S. For 10 points, identify this prestigious organization for high-achieving liberal arts students.
ANSWER: Phi Beta Kappa
045-09-7-03119

4. This man wrote about a conscientious objector who "was more brave than me, more blond than you" in
his poem "i sing of Olaf glad and big." Zulu and the jester Surplice (sur-PLEECE) are among the characters
in La Ferte Mace (fert MOSS) concentration camp in this author's autobiographical novel The Enormous
Room. Another poem by this man begins "anyone lived in a pretty how town." For 10 points, name this
American poet who often shunned traditional punctuation and capitalization.
ANSWER: Edward Estlin Cummings
030-09-7-03120

5. This type of function is asymptotically equal to a recurrence of F of N over 2 plus a constant. The
complex form of this function for a given input can have infinite outputs separated by multiples of two pi. Its
derivative is equal to one over x and the sum of two of these on values x and y is equal to this function of x
times y. Changing the base of this operation by dividing it by its value for the new base. For 10 points, name
this type of function that is that returns the inverse of an exponential and comes in natural and log varieties.
ANSWER: logarithm [or log; accept natural logarithm and variants]
001-09-7-03121

VHSL Regionals Round 3 Page 6 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. In Act IV of this play, one character declares "We are such stuff as dreams are made on." One character
meets the jester Trinculo and the butler Stephano and drunkenly offers to become their slave. That character
and Ariel were condemned by Sycorax. The presumed death of Alonso’s son leads Alonso inland, where he
finds Ferdinand performing tasks for the island's ruler, the exiled Duke of Milan. That figure, Prospero,
eventually reclaims his kingdom from Antonio in, for 10 points, what play about a brutal storm by William
Shakespeare?
ANSWER: The Tempest
060-09-7-03122

7. One event of this type was named for the Stono River, and another was named for the German Coast.
Another of these events failed after floods washed out the bridges leading into Richmond. Denmark Vesey
and Gabriel Prosser were two men who led this kind of event. The leader of another of these events dictated
his "confession" from Southampton County Jail. For 10 points, name these uprisings, whose most effective
example in Virginia was led in 1831 by Nat Turner.
ANSWER: slave rebellions [accept slave revolts, slave uprisings, or any other clear equivalents]
003-09-7-03123

8. While bathing on Cithaeron (kith-AY-er-on), this goddess turned a spying hunter into a stag, who was
then devoured by his own hounds. She turned the mother of Arcas into a bear and killed a hunter who tried
to seduce her follower Opis. One woman insulted this goddess's mother by boasting of her own 14 children.
This slayer of Actaeon (ACK-tay-on) and of Niobe's (nye-OH-beez) children was born on a floating island
to Leto along with her twin brother. For 10 points, name this daughter of Zeus and sister of Apollo who was
the Greek goddess of fertility and the hunt.
ANSWER: Artemis [accept Diana before "Greek" is read]
060-09-7-03124

9. This substance is combined with organomagnesium bromides to give carboxylic acids. As a supercritical
fluid, it is used to decrease the viscosity of crude oil. As well as ethanol, this substance is produced in the
fermentation of glucose by yeast. Its structure is predicted to be linear due to its two double bonds. In the
presence of water, this triatomic substance is in equilibrium with carbonic acid. For 10 points, name this gas,
symbolized CO2 (see oh two).
ANSWER: carbon dioxide [accept CO2 before it is read]
022-09-7-03125

10. This musician quoted the hymn Gaudeamus Igitur (GOW-dee-ah-muhs ih-gih-tour) in a work written in
response to an honorary doctorate this man received from Breslau. This man created a work in imitation of a
Catholic mass using texts from the Luther Bible titled A German Requiem. He composed the Tragic and
Academic Festival overtures. His first symphony was nicknamed "Beethoven's Tenth." For 10 points, name
this German composer known for his Lullaby.
ANSWER: Johannes Brahms
023-09-7-03126

11. In 2004, a man claiming to be "Jude Finisterra" caused a drop in stock prices with a hoax announcement
about an event which took place in this city. Residents of this city still suffer birth defects due to
groundwater contamination from the forty-five tons of methyl isocyanate which were released from an
insecticide plant here. Anywhere from three to fifteen thousand people in this capital of Madhya Pradesh
were killed by, for 10 points, the 1984 leak from a Union Carbide plant in what Indian city?
ANSWER: Bhopal
045-09-7-03127

VHSL Regionals Round 3 Page 7 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

12. One painting by this man shows an exchange between Maurice of Nassau (NASS-aw) and Ambrosio
Spinola. This artist painted a portrait of his slave Juan de Pareja (pah-RAY-huh). Irish painter Francis Bacon
based a series of works on this artist’s portrait of Pope Innocent X. One of his paintings shows himself at the
left next to a large canvas, a mirror showing the reflection of the king and queen in the background, and the
Infanta Margarita in the center. For 10 points, name this Spanish artist who served in the court of King
Philip IV and painted Las Meninas.
ANSWER: Diego Velazquez [accept Diego Rodríguez de Silva y Velázquez]
064-09-7-03128

13. An orangutan commits the titular crimes in this man's "The Murders in the Rue Morgue." One poem by
this author laments the loss of a maiden living in a "kingdom by the sea." Another poem by this man sees the
titular creature sit on a bust of Pallas after coming "rapping, rapping at [a] chamber door." For 10 points,
name this American author who wrote about the loss of Virginia Clemm in the poem "Annabel Lee" and
lamented the loss of Lenore in the poem "The Raven."
ANSWER: Edgar Allan Poe [accept "The Murders in the Rue Morgue" before mentioned]
002-09-7-03129

14. The protagonist of this opera sneaks into the apartment of Donna Anna, kills the Commandant in a duel,
and attempts to steal Zerlina from her peasant fiancé, Masetto. The servant Leporello sings "The Catalogue
Aria" and dresses up as the title character of this opera, so that his master can seduce Donna Elvira's maid. In
its final act, the ghost of the Commandant orders the title character to repent for his sins, but he refuses and
is dragged into Hell. For 10 points, name this opera about a rakish nobleman, by Wolfgang Amadeus
Mozart.
ANSWER: Don Giovanni
063-09-7-03130

15. This country's forces stopped invading Italy after losing the Battle of Fornovo, thwarting the plans of this
country's king, Charles VIII, to conquer Naples. This country's Wars of Religion pitted the Duke of Guise
(GEEZ) against three kings named Henry. The last of those kings, Henry IV, ended the conflict by
proclaiming that this country's capital was "worth a mass." For 10 points, name this country whose
Protestants were known as Huguenots.
ANSWER: France
004-09-7-03131

VHSL Regionals Round 3 Page 8 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Regionals
Round 3
Tiebreaker Questions
1. Changing this situation to make the reward worth more than the temptation creates a stag hunt, which has
two Nash equilibria as compared to one for this situation. Merrill Flood, Melvin Dresher, and Robert
Axelrod were among the scholars who studied this scenario as applicable to nuclear arms. The "tit for tat"
strategy is one approach to this situation. For 10 points, identify this fundamental game theory problem, in
which two suspects must each choose to defect or cooperate.
ANSWER: the prisoner's dilemma
019-09-7-03132

2. This element, whose main source is from spodumene (SPAHD-yoo-meen), has a hydroxide salt used to
purify air by absorbing carbon dioxide. At room temperature it is the only metal that will react with nitrogen
gas and citrate and carbonate salts of this element are used to treat bipolar disorder. This element, which has
a diagonal relationship with magnesium, is placed at the top of the metal reactivity series, explaining its
usage in high power rechargeable batteries. For 10 points, name this alkali metal with atomic number 3 and
chemical symbol Li.
ANSWER: lithium [accept Li before it is read]
064-09-7-03133

3. In one work by this man, townspeople question their beliefs after the Elder Zosima's corpse begins to
decay. This author created a parable where Jesus is arrested in Spain and questioned by the Grand Inquisitor.
In another of this man's works, Porfiry Petrovich investigates the murder of a pawnbroker. This author
created the patriarch Fyodor and his four sons and the murderous Raskolnikov (RAS-kohl-nee-KOFF). For
10 points, name this Russian author of The Brothers Karamazov (KUH-ra-ma-SOFF) and Crime and
Punishment.
ANSWER: Fyodor Mikhaylovich Dostoyevsky
052-09-7-03134

4. This range is divided into the Cordilleras (CORE-dee-YER-ahs) Occidental and Oriental. This mountain
range contains the land that is farthest from the earth's core, Mount Chimborazo (CHIM-bore-AH-zoh). The
Atacama desert lies to the west of the dry part of these mountains. The lost city of Machu Picchu lies within
this mountain range, which is also the origin of alpacas and llamas and the site of Santiago, Chile. For 10
points, name these mountains, which run through western South America.
ANSWER: Andes Mountains
059-09-7-03135

5. The early years of this condition were chronicled by Randy Shilts's And the Band Played On. Karposi's
Sarcoma frequently accompanies this disease, which is treated with HAART and AZT therapy and which
attacks CD4+ T lymphocytes. This disease is believed to have originated in chimpanzees in Sub-Saharan
Africa, where it is most prevalent today, and many of the initial infections occurred through blood
transfusions. For 10 points, name this sexually transmitted disease which attacks the immune system and is
caused by the HIV virus.
ANSWER: AIDS [or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome; or Acquired ImmunoDeficiency Syndrome;
accept HIV or Human Immunodeficiency Virus until mentioned]
059-09-7-03136

VHSL Regionals Round 3 Page 9 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

