VHSL States
Round 1
First Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. One work by this artist contains "The Princess from the Land of Porcelain" at its center and was
purchased by Charles Freer from Frederick Leyland. He objected to a critic calling one his works a "pot of
paint flung in the public's face," and thus sued John Ruskin for libel over a depiction of fireworks above
London. This artist of the Peacock Room and Nocturne in Black and Gold painted The White Girl and an
"arrangement in grey and black" that depicted one of his close relatives. For 10 points, name this American
expatriate artist, known for a portrait of his mother.
ANSWER: James Abbott McNeill Whistler
040-09-9-01101

2. The sequence KDEL marks proteins for retention in this structure. Chaperone proteins located in this
structure fold newly created proteins. A specialized variety of this structure stores calcium ions and is found
in smooth and striated muscle. That "sarcoplasmic" (sar-co-PLAZZ-mic) type of this organelle is in turn a
subset of a type of this structure which is the location of carbohydrate and steroid metabolism. That type is
known as "transitional" or "smooth." For 10 points, name this organelle, which also has a "rough" type that
contains ribosomes (RYE-bo-soams).
ANSWER: endoplasmic reticulum [or ER; or smooth endoplasmic reticulum; or rough endoplasmic
reticulum; prompt on sarcoplasmic reticulum; prompt on SR]
059-09-9-01102

3. This author addresses a subject who, if asked, should say that its father did not exist and that its mother
threw it from her door due to poverty, in her poem "The Author to Her Book." A posthumous collection of
her poems contains "To My Dear and Loving Husband," but she had gained some notice during her lifetime
when her brother-in-law John Woodbridge published some of her manuscripts. For 10 points, name this
early American poet, who lamented the loss of her possessions in Upon the Burning of Our House, and
whose works were collected in The Tenth Muse Lately Sprung Up In America.
ANSWER: Anne Bradstreet
040-09-9-01103

4. This political unit was created at the Battle of the Leaping Mullet Fish. A resolution passed in 1993 at the
urging of President Clinton, and the earlier Blount Report, both condemned the illegal overthrow of this
place's leader. The Bayonet Constitution was signed here in 1887, following the machinations of Sanford
Dole. It was united as a single kingdom by Kamehameha (kah-MAY-ha-MAY-ha), but its monarchy ended
after the overthrow of Queen Liliuokalani (LILL-ee-oo-oh-ka-LAH-nee). For 10 points, name this former
island nation that later became the fiftieth state in the United States.
ANSWER: the Kingdom of Hawaii
032-09-9-01104

5. One of this author's novels is narrated by a religious zealot named Drusilla Clack, who passes around a
flier claiming that Satan can be found in sofa pillows. That novel also contains the butler Betteredge, who
reveres Robinson Crusoe. He wrote about the somnambulating (som-NAMB-yoo-late-ing) Godfrey
Ablewhite, who steals an object that he believes will bring harm to his love, Rachel Verinder. Colonel
Herncastle previously stole that gemstone, causing three Hindus to attempt recovery in England. For 10
points, name this Victorian novelist, who wrote The Woman in White and The Moonstone.
ANSWER: William Wilkie Collins
026-09-9-01105

VHSL States Round 1 Page 1 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. This man, who was recruited to the Office of Strategic Services by Preston Goodfellow, gained notoriety
for ordering both the destruction of the Hangang Bridge and the massacre at Jeju island. This leader
established the 1952 "peace line" to seize the Liancourt Rocks, which he renamed Dokdo. His electoral fraud
led to his exile to Hawaii following the April Revolution. After converting to Christianity and gaining
popularity through his resistance to Japan during World War II, he opposed the negotiations to end the
Korean War. For 10 points, name the first president of South Korea.
ANSWER: Syngman Rhee
034-09-9-01106

7. This instrument plays a solo in the "Aviary" movement of Saint-Saens's (sahn SEN-zez) Carnival of the
Animals. It is the first instrument to play the primary melody in Ravel's Bolero, and it performs the opening
chromatic scale in Debussy's Prelude to the Afternoon of a Faun. Players of this instrument, which delivers
the lead melody in "Morning Mood" from Peer Gynt, have included Jean-Pierre Rampal and Herbie Mann.
Its shorter variant, pitched an octave higher, is called the piccolo. For 10 points, name this reedless
woodwind instrument that is usually made of silver metal.
ANSWER: C flute
005-09-9-01107

8. For a black hole, this quantity is given by the product of the area of that black hole with Boltzmann's
constant, divided by four times the Planck length squared. Taking the negative derivative with respect to
temperature of the Helmholtz free energy yields this quantity, which can be defined as Boltzmann's constant
times the logarithm of the number of microstates of a system. This quantity goes to a minimum as
temperature approaches absolute zero. For 10 points, the second law of thermodynamics holds that, over
time for isolated systems, there is an increase in what measure of disorder, symbolized S?
ANSWER: entropy [prompt on S before it is read]
032-09-9-01108

9. This man served under MacArthur at Anacostia Flats to remove the Bonus Army. Earlier, he was
aide-de-camp to Pershing during the pursuit of Pancho Villa. During Operation Overlord, he commanded a
fictitious army invading Calais (cah-LAY) to divert German attention from Normandy. He relieved
Bastogne (bass-TONE) during the Battle of the Bulge, commanding the U.S. Third Army. For 10 points,
what World War II general, called "Old Blood and Guts," was removed from command for slapping a
shell-shocked soldier hospitalized in Sicily?
ANSWER: George Smith Patton, Jr.
034-09-9-01109

10. This author wrote about a schoolteacher who prays naked, Kate Swift, in "The Strength of God." He also
created Adolph Myers, who moves out and renames himself Wing Biddlebaum after being accused of
molesting a boy, in "Hands." His other charaters include a young reporter who sleeps with the farm girl
Louise Trunnion. For 10 points, what American author wrote about George Willard in the short story
collection Winesburg, Ohio?
ANSWER: Sherwood Anderson
034-09-9-01110

VHSL States Round 1 Page 2 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

11. This battle was followed by fighting at Arles and at the River Berre that confined the losing side to the
provinces of Narbonne and Septimania. It was caused by an appeal from Eudes (YOO-dayz), the Duke of
Aquitaine, who, despite having won ten years earlier at Toulouse and Bordeaux, was now unequipped to
deal with heavy cavalry. The defenders' strategy was to fight in a square, but Abd-al-Rahman
underestimated their strength and charged anyway. For 10 points, al-Rahman was soundly defeated by
Charles Martel's Frankish forces at what 732 engagement?
ANSWER: Battle of Tours [prompt on Battle of Poitiers]
040-09-9-01111

12. One episode of this show begins with a man stepping on a landmine in the sand trap of a Washington,
D.C.-area golf course. One character on this show saves her boss's life by killing her Palestinian half-brother.
Chilean actress Cote de Pablo plays Israeli officer Ziva David, who has a flirtatious relationship with officer
Tony DiNozzo on this show. It also features the geeky McGee and a goth lab assistant named Abby. For 10
points, name this show that stars Mark Harmon as Jethro Gibbs, an agent of the title Navy investigative
agency.
ANSWER: NCIS: Naval Criminal Investigative Service [or NCIS: Naval Criminal Investigative Service]
026-09-9-01112

13. This group carries on its traditional musical arts at its community in Maine at Sabbathday Lake. Their
official name is The United Society of Believers in Christ's Second Coming. They were transplanted to
America by Ann Lee, and they maintain their numbers only through conversions and adoption of orphans, as
they practice strict celibacy. Their more popular name was originally meant to insult the contortions they
made during the dances that comprised a large portion of their public worship. For 10 points, name this
Protestant sect with a name similar to the group they broke off from, the Quakers.
ANSWER: the Shaker community [or the Shakers; accept United Society of Believers in Christ's Second
Coming before it is read]
045-09-9-01113

14. Joseph Priestley likely inspired the character of Inflammable Gas in this man's satirical An Island in the
Moon. He created a mythology in which the son of Los and Enitharmon defeats Albion's Angel. His work is
subtitled "Shewing the Two Contrary States of the Human Soul," and includes two poems titled "The
Chimney Sweeper." Another poem in that collection asks, "What immortal hand or eye could frame thy
fearful symmetry?" and addresses the title animal "burning bright in the forests of the night." For 10 points,
name this British author whose Songs of Innocence and Experience contains the poem "The Tiger."
ANSWER: William Blake
003-09-9-01114

15. The largest lake in this mountain range is split by the Strait of Tiquina (tick-EE-nuh). This range is
bordered on the northeast by Los Llanos (YAN-os). Split into regions called the Cordillera
(cor-dee-YEAR-uh), its Occidental portion contains the extinct volcano Chimborazo, and its Oriental Range
includes Lake Titicaca. Its highest point is Aconcagua. For 10 points, name this mountain range that runs
along the western edge of South America, from Venezuela to Chile.
ANSWER: Andes Mountains
051-09-9-01115

VHSL States Round 1 Page 3 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL States
Round 1
Directed Round
1A. Name the language that gives us the word "mnemonic" (nuh-MAH-nik), from its word "mnemonikos"
(nuh-MAH-nik-os), both of which refer to memory.
ANSWER:
Classical/Ancient Greek
1B. Name the Rembrandt painting that depicts a man in black with a red sash and a man in yellow with a
white sash leading a group of soldiers.
ANSWER:
The Night Watch [or De Nachtwacht; or The Company of Captain Franz Banning Cocq
and Willem van Ruytenburch]
2A. What 1964 Disney musical features Mr. and Mrs. Banks of Cherry Tree Lane and starred Dick Van
Dyke as Bert and Julie Andrews in the title role?
ANSWER: Mary Poppins
2B. The square of this mathematical construct is the probability distribution of a particle. Name these
solutions to the Schrodinger equation that collapse upon being measured.
ANSWER:
wavefunctions
3A. Oedipus (ED-uh-pus) passing judgment against the murderer of his father Laius, assuming the authority
of the gods, is an example of this trait. Name this trait, a common character flaw of heroes in Greek tragedy
which results in their destruction.
ANSWER:
hubris
3B. The health care bill that passed muster in the Senate in December 2009 lacked this major component of
Obama's original proposal. Name this proposed program which would compete with private insurers.
ANSWER:
public option
4A. This is a 10-second calculation question. Find 32 percent of 73.
ANSWER: 23.36
4B. This is a 10-second calculation question. Add eight and six-sevenths plus thirty-four and one-quarter.
ANSWER: 1207/28 [or 43 3/28]
5A. Name this author of The Optimist's Daughter, who wrote short stories collected in A Curtain of Green
such as "A Worn Path" and "Why I Live at the P.O."
ANSWER:
Eudora Alice Welty
5B. Name the poetic rhythm, prominently featured in the poetry of Gerard Manley Hopkins, which depends
only on the total number of stressed syllables in a line.
ANSWER:
sprung rhythm

VHSL States Round 1 Page 4 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6A. This is a 20-second calculation question. A company finds that demand for its widgets follows the
equation 100 minus 2p, if p is the price they charge for each widget; and the amount of money earned by the
company is the product of the price and the quantity sold. What price earns the largest revenue?
ANSWER: $25
6B. This is a 20-second calculation question. Every domino in a set of dominoes is two inches long,
three-quarters of an inch wide, and one-quarter of an inch thick. How many of these dominoes can fit in a
box that is four and a half inches wide, four inches long, and two and three-quarters inches high?
ANSWER: 132
7A. Name the "father of the hydrogen bomb" who studied under Heisenberg and testified against Robert
Oppenheimer.
ANSWER:
Edward Teller
7B. This fictitious force results from attempting to apply Newtonian mechanics in a rotating reference frame.
Name this force whose importance relative to inertial forces is measured by the Rossby number.
ANSWER:
Coriolis force
8A. Located in the Bloomsbury section of London, it contains seven million items, including the Grecian
Urn that inspired Keats and the Elgin Marbles taken from the Parthenon in Greece. Name this institution that
is also home to the Rosetta Stone.
ANSWER:
the British Museum
8B. This football franchise was formed when Art Modell moved the Cleveland Browns to replace another
town's departed Colts. Name this football team quarterbacked by Joe Flacco.
ANSWER:
Baltimore Ravens [or Ravens]
9A. This is a 30-second calculation question. Find cos(sin-1 -6/13) ("cosine of the arcsine of negative
six-thirteenths").
ANSWER: (square root 133)/13
9B. This is a 30-second calculation question. You have a coin that lands heads-up 75% of the time when it is
flipped. If you flip this coin four times, find the probability of getting exactly three heads.
ANSWER: 27/64
10A. The process of gluconeogenesis occurs in this organ. Name this organ, which is the site of damage due
to cirrhosis.
ANSWER:
liver
10B. Identify the economist who is the namesake of an optimality criterion in which no exchange of
resources would make both parties better off.
ANSWER:
Vilfredo Pareto

VHSL States Round 1 Page 5 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL States
Round 1
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. The villagers of this work joke about Amadi the leper because he has white skin. The uncle of this novel's
protagonist notes that "Mother is supreme" and welcomes the protagonist during his seven-year exile.
Although Mr. Kiaga and Mr. Brown win support in this novel by offering the osu, or outcasts, refuge,
Reverend James Smith is far less tolerant. This novel ends ironically when the District Commissioner
decides that he would dedicate a paragraph in The Pacification of the Primitive Tribes of the Lower Niger to
Okonkwo. For 10 points, “The Second Coming” inspired the title of what novel by Chinua Achebe?
ANSWER: Things Fall Apart
034-09-9-01117

2. This god's forms include the white, six-armed peacock rider who kills the demon Sindu, and Dhumraketu,
who will cleanse the world during the Kali Yuga. Three of this god's four hands hold an axe, a whip, and a
lotus. He is depicted riding a mouse or a rat, and this deity is often called the "remover of obstacles." This
god is the oldest son of Parvati and Shiva, who chopped off his original head. He only has one tusk and is
often shown holding the broken one. For 10 points, name this elephant-headed god from Hinduism.
ANSWER: Ganesha
032-09-9-01118

3. In one work by this author, Captain van Toch discovers the title marine animals near Sumatra, which,
under the Great Salamander, rebel against humans. Alquist is the only human spared in his most famous
play, in which Primus and Helena become Adam and Eve figures after the pair is given souls. That work
sees Helena Glory, a representative of the Humanity League, marry the protagonist, Harry Domin. For 10
points, what author of War with the Newts introduced the word that means "labor" in Czech, "robot," in
R.U.R. ?
ANSWER: Karel Capek
034-09-9-01119

4. The Havel-Hakimi theorem gives the conditions for a sequence to correspond to one of these. Ramsey's
theorem deals with the coloring of complete ones. They can occur in undirected and directed forms, the
latter of which gives a direction to one of their components. Hamilton and Euler (OY-ler) name cycles in
these; Euler's is used in the Seven Bridges of Konigsberg Problem, which launched the study of them. For 10
points, name these mathematical objects made of vertices and edges.
ANSWER: graphs
040-09-9-01120

5. This conflict saw the appearance of the clubmen, vigilantes who sought to protect the public from its
effects. The turning point of this conflict came with the indiscipline of the cavalry of Prince Rupert of the
Rhine, allowing a victory at the Battle of Naseby for the New Model Army. This war led to the
establishment of the Commonwealth, though its effects were overturned by the Restoration. For 10 points,
name this conflict between Parliamentarians, or "Roundheads" and Royalists, or "Cavaliers" which resulted
in the execution of King Charles I and the ascension of Oliver Cromwell.
ANSWER: First English Civil War [prompt on English Revolution]
059-09-9-01121

VHSL States Round 1 Page 6 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. When these landforms lie parallel to one another, they create raised and lowered areas called horsts and
grabens. Flat irons form from scarps, which are located along these features. These features divide a surface
into a hanging wall and a footwall. At lower depths, they are called shear zones. If the movement of one of
these features has both strike and dip components, it is known as an oblique-slip one. They also come in
transform and strike-slip types. For 10 points, name these cracks in the Earth's surface, the movement of
which causes earthquakes.
ANSWER: faults
003-09-9-01122

7. The captures of Forts Douaumont (DOO-oh-mon) and Vaux (VAW) were central to this battle. The
ultimate failure of the attacking side was the inability to take Fort Souville. This battle began when
commander Falkenhayn (FALL-ken-hein) decided to attack a town on the French-German border, knowing
that the French would "throw in every man they had." French General Robert Nivelle's battle cry of "They
shall not pass!" echoed long after this battle, in which Marshal Petain led the French effort. For 10 points,
name this horrific 1916 battle between France and Germany in which both sides lost over three hundred
thousand troops.
ANSWER: the Battle of Verdun (ver DONE)
045-09-9-01123

8. In the MIPS ("mips") architecture, many ALU ("A"-"L"-"U") operations, such as add, have this as their
opcode. In "one's complement" notation there are two of these. In Unix, slash dev slash null has a
counterpart that produces these. In C++ this is equivalent to false. Arrays usually start with this index. In
digital circuits, this number corresponds to a low voltage. A common programming error, or exception, is
dividing by this number. For 10 points, name this value, which is contrasted with "one" in the binary system
used by computers.
ANSWER: zero
023-09-9-01124

9. This President was nicknamed "Ice Veins" for his cold personality, and his cabinet included the inventor
of the department store, Postmaster-General John Wanamaker. This President signed a controversial bill that
gave disability pensions to veterans even if their injury was not from combat. He worked with the "Billion
Dollar Congress" and signed the Sherman Anti-Trust Act, the Sherman Silver Purchase Act, and the
McKinley Tariff. For 10 points, name this President who served between Grover Cleveland's two terms, the
grandson of William Henry Harrison.
ANSWER: Benjamin Harrison [prompt on Harrison]
021-09-9-01125

10. This composer wrote the movement "Montagues and Capulets" for his ballet Romeo and Juliet. He
claimed that his first symphony was written in the style of Josef Haydn, had Haydn been alive in the
twentieth century. An opera by this composer sees the King of Clubs' son cursed by Fata Morgana to seek
after the title fruit. Another piece by this composer of the Classical symphony and the opera Love for Three
Oranges uses the bassoon to represent the grandfather and the oboe to represent the duck. For 10 points,
name this Russian composer of Peter and the Wolf.
ANSWER: Sergei Sergeyevich Prokofiev
026-09-9-01126

VHSL States Round 1 Page 7 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

11. One class of this phylum is distinguished by the presence of a pharynx that opens into the gastrovascular
(GAS-tro-VAS-kyoo-lurr) cavity and is known as the actinopharynx (ack-TIN-o-FAIR-inks). One member
of this phylum, Chironex fleckeri (KY-ro-nex FLECK-er-eye), is in the class Cubozoa (CUBE-oh-ZO-uh).
Its class Anthozoa (AN-tho-ZO-uh) contains corals. Organisms in this phylum are characterized by stinging
cells known as nematocytes (nuh-MAT-oh-sites) and grow from a polyp to a medusa. For 10 points, what
marine phylum includes sea anemone, hydra, and jellyfish?
ANSWER: Cnidaria (ni-DARE-ee-uh)
034-09-9-01127

12. This character drunkenly phones a girl to ask if he can trim her Christmas tree. He is annoyed that Jane
Gallagher would go out with Ward Stradlater, whom this character had to write an English assignment for.
He repeatedly asks cabbies where the ducks in Central Park go for the winter. He broke all the windows in
the garage the night his brother Allie died. His brother D.B. is one of the "phonies" this character hates. For
10 points, name this protagonist of The Catcher in the Rye.
ANSWER: Holden Caulfield [or Holden Caulfield]
003-09-9-01128

13. The Shankland team supported the outcome of this experiment by finding fundamental flaws in Daisy
Miller’s observations. A version of this experiment looking for seasonal variation was carried out by
Kennedy and Thorndike. It used a half-silvered mirror to split coherent light and attempted to detect a
certain "wind" by measuring fringe shift with an interferometer. Its results were explained by the
Lorenz-FitzGerald hypothesis concerning length contraction. For 10 points, what experiment, named for two
physicists at Case Western, disproved the existence of luminiferous (loo-min-IF-er-us) aether (EE-ther)?
ANSWER: Michelson-Morley experiment
034-09-9-01129

14. One of this man’s brothers, who rode around in a bronze chariot imitating Zeus, was Salmoneus
(SAL-moh-NAY-uss). He marked the hooves of his cattle to prove that Autolycus was stealing from him. He
earned Zeus’s wrath for telling Asopus of Aegina’s abduction. This son of Enarete (EE-nuh-REE-tay) and
Aeolus (eye-OH-luss) claimed that his wife Merope (muh-ROH-pee) did not perform proper funeral rites.
He made that claim in order to convince Persephone to allow him to return to life, and he earlier tricked
Death into chaining himself. For 10 points, name the tragic Greek who was condemned to eternally roll a
boulder up a hill.
ANSWER: Sisyphus
034-09-9-01130

15. Djedeba and Jalo are among the territories of this empire that were referred to as the Twelve Doors. This
empire's legislature was called the Gbara. A victory at the Battle of Kirina over Sumanguru allowed it to be
established. One leader of this empire distributed so much gold on his way to Mecca that it lowered gold
prices in the Middle East. Along with Mansa Musa, other important figures of this empire include its
founder Sundiata (soon-dee-AH-ta). For 10 points, name this African empire with capital at Niani whose
major cities included Timbuktu.
ANSWER: the Empire of Mali
032-09-9-01131

VHSL States Round 1 Page 8 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL States
Round 1
Tiebreaker Questions
1. In one play by this dramatist, Kratos (KRAH-tose) and Bia (BEE-uh) drag the title character to Scythia,
where Io (EYE-oh) wanders by to deliver a prophecy about Heracles. Atossa (ah-TOE-suh) and the ghost of
Darius (duh-RYE-us) advise Xerxes (ZERK-seez) in a different play by this man. Another of his works ends
when a group's name is changed to "The Kindly Ones." That group had chased a character to Delphi
following the killings of Aegisthus (eye-JISS-thus) and Clytemnestra (KLAE-tem-NESS-truh) in a previous
play by this author, in vengeance for the death of Agamemnon. For 10 points, name this author of
Prometheus Bound and The Persians, whose trilogy consisting of Agamemnon, The Libation Bearers, and
The Eumenides (yoo-MEN-id-eez) tells the story of Orestes (oar-EST-eez).
ANSWER: Aeschylus (ESS-kuh-liss)
019-09-9-01132

2. In this opera, a grand concertato finale to Act Two includes "Gloria all'Egitto." In Act One, the title
character sings "Ritorna Vincitor" (ree-TOR-nah VEEN-kuh-tor). "O Patria Mia" is an aria in this opera
about the title character's homeland, which is at war with her captors. This opera includes the characters
Amonasro and Ramfis. This opera concludes with Amneris at the tomb of Radames, where he dies along
with the title character, a slave. For 10 points, name this opera, named after an Ethiopian princess and set in
Egypt, by Guiseppe Verdi.
ANSWER: Aida
062-09-9-01133

3. This thinker defined sabotage as the “conscientious withdraw of efficiency” and noted businessmen’s
profit-seeking as an example. He expressed his hope for technocracy in The Engineers and the Price System.
This writer criticized esoteric learning without meaning in a work whose title group develops out of
barbarism. War, hunting, and sports support a certain predatory group according to, for 10 points, what
economist, who attacked "pecuniary emulsion" and "conspicuous consumption" in The Theory of the Leisure
Class?
ANSWER: Thorstein Bunde Veblen
034-09-9-01134

4. This compound is turned into xanthate (ZAN-thate) before being rebuilt through a spinneret in the process
to create viscose rayon. This compound has beta-1,4 glycosidic (gly-co-SID-ic) linkages; those linkages are
the only difference between this compound and starches, which are likewise made up of repeating chains of
glucose. This most abundant organic compound on earth is indigestible by humans; however, it can be
broken down by microorganisms that live in cows and termites. For 10 points, name this compound that
makes up the majority of a plant’s cell wall.
ANSWER: cellulose
027-09-9-01135

5. This statement is invoked in the Born-Haber (BORN HAW-ber) cycle. This statement follows from the
fact that the quantity it concerns is a state function, and therefore its value is independent of the system's
trajectory. This statement is often framed in terms of the heats of formation of reactants and products. For 10
points, name this statement of thermodynamics that suggests that a reaction's enthalpy change is equal to the
sum of the enthalpy changes of each step.
ANSWER: Hess's Law
022-09-9-01136

VHSL States Round 1 Page 9 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

