VHSL States
Round 6
First Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. During World War Two, this country was briefly ruled by the Arrow Cross Party, although it was mainly
ruled by longtime leader Miklos Horthy. During the European revolutions of 1848, its independence was
spurred on by the revolutionary Lajos Kossuth. Another revolution in this country was caused in part by
Khruschev’s recent secret speech denouncing Stalin and ended with the execution of Imry Nagy (NAHJ)
following a Soviet invasion in 1956. For 10 points, name this Eastern European nation that fought for the
Central Powers during World War One as part of a political union with Austria.
ANSWER: Hungary [or Magyarorszag; or Magyar Koztarsasag]
064-09-9-06101

2. In this novel, Anne marries the schoolmaster Dr. Strong and resists the seduction of her cousin Jack
Maldon. The protagonist of this novel has an eccentric aunt named Betsey Trotwood who nicknames him
“Trot.” The protagonist of this novel marries the vain Dora Spenlow after James Steerforth runs away with
his childhood friend Little Emily. The protagonist of this novel eventually marries Agnes Wickfield despite
the scheming of Uriah Heep. For 10 points, name this Charles Dickens novel.
ANSWER: David Copperfield
015-09-9-06102

3. This thinker described the significance of masawa in the “Story of Shipwreck,” which also discusses the
use of items such as mwali and souvali. This man wrote The Scientific Theory of Culture and attacked the
Oedipus Complex in Sex and Repression in Savage Societies. Coral Gardens and Their Magic is a sequel to
his best known work, an ethnographical study on Trobriand Islanders. For 10 points, name this founder of
functionalism, the Polish anthropologist of Argonauts of the Western Pacific.
ANSWER: Bronislaw Malinowski
034-09-9-06103

4. Wolff's Law governs the circumstances that cause density of this tissue to increase or decrease. Precursors
to this tissue are generated at the epiphyseal (EPP-ih-FIZZ-ee-uhl) plate. Since estrogen causes cells that
resorb this tissue to undergo apoptosis, this tissue becomes noticeably weaker in post-menopausal
(men-oh-"PAWS"-uhl) women. Blood is supplied to this tissue through Haversian (huh-VER-zee-uhn)
canals, and the hydroxyapatite ("high"-DROX-ee-APP-uh-tite) in this tissue's matrix is a major site of
calcium storage. For 10 points, name this tissue that comprises the majority of the skeleton.
ANSWER: bone
003-09-9-06104

5. This group met at the Chamber of Hewn Stones and consisted of seventy-one members. Members of this
group sat in a semicircle facing the a leader called the "nasi." One incarnation of this group was led by
Rabban Gamliel. With oversight from Rome, this group handled matters of taxation, the census, and other
administrative tasks in ancient Jerusalem. During one trial, this group was led by the high priest Caiaphus.
For 10 points, name this Jewish council that opposed Jesus and his apostles in the New Testament gospels.
ANSWER: Sanhedrin
045-09-9-06105

VHSL States Round 6 Page 1 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. One work by this author retells an ancient classic and sees the protagonist live the last year of his life in
Antarctica after earlier traveling as a holy man in Africa. Another of his novels offers a controversial
narrative of Jesus Christ from his own perspective. In addition to The Odyssey: A Modern Sequel and The
Last Temptation, he wrote a novel that sees the main characters stay at the hotel of Madame Hortense. The
title character of that novel later works as a foreman at a Cretan mine. For 10 points, name this Nobel Prize
winning European author of Zorba the Greek.
ANSWER: Nikos Kazantzakis
064-09-9-06106

7. He set a sequence of Wilhelm Mueller's poetry to music in Die Schoene Muellerin. He also set Mueller's
poems such as "The Hurdy-Gurdy Man" in his Winterreise (vin-tur-EYE-suh) or Winter Journey. This
composer reworked his piece Die Forelle (DEE for-EL-uh) into a quintet. Dietrich Fisher-Deskau recorded
his songs, including "The Erlking." His second-to-last symphony has only two movements and an
incomplete scherzo. For 10 points, name this Austrian composer of the Trout Quintet and his eighth
symphony, the Unfinished, also famed for his lieder.
ANSWER: Franz Peter Schubert
026-09-9-06107

8. While serving as a district judge, this man was known as the “little fightin’ judge,” a reference to his high
school boxing days. One of his opponents was Albert Brewer, who lost a runoff election to this man in 1970.
Due to term limits, this man had to be succeeded as governor by his wife, Lurleen. While campaigning for
president, this leader was crippled by the assassin Arthur Bremer. The 1968 presidential nominee under the
American Independent Party, for 10 points, name this longtime Alabama Governor noted for his spirited
defense of segregation.
ANSWER: George Corley Wallace Jr.
052-09-9-06108

9. This artist sings "They're dimming the street lights, you're perfect for me" on her track "Hey, Stephen."
She collaborates with the band Boys Like Girls in the song "Two is Better than One." She claims "I'm not a
princess, this ain't a fairy tale" in the song "White Horses" and "you were Romeo, I was a scarlet letter" in
her hit "Love Story." For 10 points, name this young singer-songwriter who had just won Female Video of
the Year for "You Belong With Me" when she was interrupted by Kanye West at the MTV Video Music
Awards.
ANSWER: Taylor Swift
063-09-9-06109

10. This poet was inspired by Measure to Measure to write about a woman who mourns “'My life is dreary,
he cometh not” while waiting for Angelo. This author of “Mariana” wrote about a creature that lives “Below
the thunders of the upper deep” in “The Kraken.” This poet was inspired by Arthurian legend to write his
collection The Idylls of the King. This author wrote one poem about a figure who decides “To strive, to seek,
to find, and not to yield” and another about a group who “rode into the valley of death.” For 10 points, name
this poet of “Ulysses” and “The Charge of the Light Brigade.”
ANSWER: Alfred Lord Tennyson
015-09-9-06110

VHSL States Round 6 Page 2 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

11. This politician and his wife both admitted to extramarital affairs after he had been in office for only one
day. His was widely criticized passing over Caroline Kennedy to select Kirsten Gilibrand for a vacant Senate
seat. This governor came to prominence after his predecessor was forced to resign after being revealed as
"client number nine," in a bust of a high class prostitution ring, causing that predecessor to give a public
apology as his wife looked at him with disdain. For 10 points, name this blind governor of New York, the
successor of Eliot Spitzer.
ANSWER: David Patterson
002-09-9-06111

12. A thermal inversion can cause rays to wrap around the earth in the infinite form of this phenomenon.
That difference in temperature can also allow sound to travel farther due to this effect, such as sound
traveling over a lake. This phenomenon is no longer observed once an angle of incidence reaches a critical
angle and causes total internal reflection. One is the minimum value for the index associated with this effect;
that index, denoted n, is equated with angles of incidence via Snell's Law. For 10 points, name this
phenomenon in which a wave changes velocity upon entering a different medium.
ANSWER: refraction
023-09-9-06112

13. In this country, eight people who planned a rebellion were convicted in the Rivonia trial. A student
protest of this nation’s refusal to teach them in English prompted the Soweto Massacre. This nation adopted
a policy claiming HIV did not cause AIDS. F.W. de Klerk led the Transvaal in this country before becoming
prime minister and overseeing a Xhosa (ko-sa) future president’s release from jail. This nation’s pass laws
were part of the Afrikaaner-created program of apartheid. For 10 points, name this home to the Zulus that
was led by Nelson Mandela.
ANSWER: Republic of South Africa
027-09-9-06113

14. Old rubber tires often “crack” when exposed to this compound, whose concentration is reported in
Dobson units. The Chapman cycle describes the production and degradation of this compound, which at low
temperatures forms a dark blue liquid. It takes its name from the Greek “to smell,” and its odor can be
observed during lightning strikes. In the atmosphere, this compound is broken down by compounds called
chlorofluorocarbons (KLOR-oh-FLOOR-oh-CAR-buns). For 10 points, name this compound that forms a
namesake layer in the atmosphere that shields the Earth from ultraviolet light, with formula O3.
ANSWER: ozone [accept O3 before mentioned]
064-09-9-06114

15. This painter showed the winds of change blowing in from the left as a man stands amid a crowd, in his
depiction of a national assembly. He showed a bearded man pointing to the sky while Crito touches his knee
in a work whose central figure reaches for a goblet. In one of his paintings, a man in his bathtub keels over
while clutching a letter. This man also depicted three brothers saluting their father, who holds three swords,
while a group of Roman women weep. For 10 points, name this French painter who depicted the deaths of
both Marat and Socrates, and who painted The Oath of the Horatii.
ANSWER: Jacques-Louis David
026-09-9-06115

VHSL States Round 6 Page 3 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL States
Round 6
Directed Round
1A. He won the inaugural NBA All-Star Weekend HORSE competition. At the University of Texas, he
became the first freshman to be named college basketball player of the year. Name Oklahoma City
Thunder's leading scorer, a forward picked behind Greg Oden in the 2007 draft.
ANSWER:
Kevin Durant
1B. What Dutch stowaway to the U.S. became a noted abstract expressionist painter, mostly on the strength
of his Woman series?
ANSWER: William de Kooning
2A. In Latin, this mood is usually formed by lopping of the last two letters of the infinitive, but if plural also
adding "-TE." Identify this construction where the negative type will use some variety of the word "noli."
ANSWER:
imperative
2B. Flint Lockwood creates spray-on shoes and flying rats in this film based on a Judy Barrett picture book.
Identify this movie about a delicious meteorological phenomenon that features the voice talents of Neil
Patrick Harris, Mr. T and Andy Samberg.
ANSWER:
Cloudy With a Chance of Meatballs
3A. This city, which lies on the Gulf of Gonavy, was originally named L'Hopital. Give the name of Haiti's
commercial center, largest port and capital.
ANSWER:
Port-au-Prince
3B. He claims to be able to read up to a thousand pages per hour and reviles the Harry Potter series. Give the
name of this outspoken critic, Yale professor and author of Genius: A Mosaic of One Hundred Exemplary
Creative Minds.
ANSWER:
Harold Bloom
4A.This is a 10-second calculation question. What is (2x+2sqrt(3))*(2x-2sqrt(3))?
ANSWER: 4x2-12
4B. This is a 10-second calculation question. If a rectangular coordinate is 2,sqrt(3), what is it in polar form?
ANSWER: (sqrt(7), pi/6) [or (2.646, 0.524)]
5A. The Soviet government forced this book's author to decline the Nobel Prize. Name this bleak novel by
Boris Pasternak about a medical student in the Russian Revolution and Civil War.
ANSWER:
Doctor Zhivago
5B. Two forms of acute leukemia are caused by translocations involving what chromosome, whose trisomy
is the cause of Down's Syndrome?
ANSWER: chromosome 21
VHSL States Round 6 Page 4 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6A. This is a 20-second calculation question. What is 13.916724 divided by 3.49?
ANSWER: 3.9876
6B. This is a 20-second calculation question. What is the perimeter of a rectangle whose area is 10 and
whose length is 1.6 times longer than its width.
ANSWER: 13
7A. It was first applied to metal in 1954 by French engineer Marc Gregoire. Identify this substance, which is
useful in the kitchen and is chemically named Poly-Tetra-Fluor-Ethylene.
ANSWER: Teflon
7B. His wife Benazir Bhutto was assassinated in 2007. Name this billionaire who succeeded Pervez
Musharraf as President of Pakistan.
ANSWER:
Asif Ali Zardari
8A. This part of a story comes after the rising action and means the act of untying. Identify this French term
for the resolution of a plot.
ANSWER:
denouement
8B. This economist discussed the Treaty of Versailles harsh terms for Germany in The Economic
Consequences of the Peace. Identify this British author who discussed the multiplier and advocated
government intervention in times of depression.
ANSWER:
John Maynard Keynes
9A. This is a 30-second calculation question. What is the harmonic mean of 1 through 6 in reduced
fractions? The harmonic mean is the reciprocal of the average of the reciprocals of the values.
ANSWER: 120/49
9B. This is a 30-second calculation question. If Ermes puts $340 in a bank account that pays 3 percent
annual interest compounded every quarter, how much is in his bank account after four years?
ANSWER: 383.18
10A. Its steeper side is called the Stoss end and its more tapering side is the Lee slope. Name this type of
elongated, tear-shaped hill created by a glacier.
ANSWER:
drumlin
10B. This scientist undermined the Ptolemaic worldview in books such as The Assayer and The Starry
Messenger. Give the name of the Italian astronomer attacked by the Inquisition for propounding a
Heliocentric universe, but pardoned by Pope John Paul II.
ANSWER:
Galileo Galilei [or Galileo Galilei]

VHSL States Round 6 Page 5 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL States
Round 6
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. The "Captains and Defenders" headed one short-lived government in this city, which was able to take
back such cities as Lodi and Piacenza. This home of the Golden Ambrosian Republic was led by Gian
Galeazzo and Filippo Maria, the strongest and last members of its Visconti family. Francis I won this city
after Swiss mercernaries failed to defend it, ending the rule of one family headed by Francesco I. The
Sforzas ruled this country that led the Lombard League against Frederick Barbarossa. For 10 points, name
this North Italian city, a rival of Venice and Florence.
ANSWER: Milano
020-09-9-06117

2. The movement of one type of these objects at high altitudes can create cracks called bergschrunds
(BEARG-schrundts). These objects are split by the firn limit into two zones, called the zones of
accumulation and ablation. When two of these objects are near each other on a mountain, they can cause the
formation of an arête (ar-RET). The movement of these objects caused the formation of such geographic
features as moraines. Types of them include cirque, alpine, valley, and continental. For 10 points, name
these large moving masses of ice.
ANSWER: glaciers [accept alpine glacier or cirque glacier or valley glacier until "moraines;" do not
accept or prompt on specific types of glaciers after "moraines"]
023-09-9-06118

3. In one story by this author, The Cardinal reveals that he is Kasparson after telling tales with three other
aristocrats stranded by the "Deluge at Norderney." This author wrote Seven Gothic Tales, as well as a novel
in which the protagonist declines an offer by Remi Martin to carve up a coffee plantation watched formerly
by squatters, a name the protagonist gives for the local Kikuyu farmers. In that autobiographical novel by
this author, she divorces a Swedish baron and leaves Kenya for Denmark. For 10 points, name this author of
Out of Africa.
ANSWER: Isak Christenze Dinesen [or Karen von Blixen-Finecke]
020-09-9-06119

4. This treaty settled a boundary dispute that had led to the founding of the short-lived Republic of Indian
Stream. In this treaty, the U.S. promised to deploy part of its navy off the coast of Africa to search suspected
slave ships. This treaty defused a situation caused when New York tried Alexander McLeod for the burning
of the Caroline. The American namesake of this treaty had earlier conducted a Senate debate with Hayne.
For 10 points, name this 1842 treaty that concluded the Aroostook War and set the U.S.-Canada boundary,
co-negotiated by a longtime Massachusetts senator.
ANSWER: Webster-Ashburton Treaty
003-09-9-06120

5. The main character in this work attacks the liberal lawyer Seneca Doane. In this novel, the reporter
Kenneth Escott is paid to write an article about a Presbyterian Sunday school. The prison sentence of Paul
Riesling in this novel causes the title character to flirt with liberalism, but the title character ultimately joins
the Good Citizens' League. For 10 points, name this novel about the title businessman in the town of Zenith,
a work of Sinclair Lewis.
ANSWER: Babbit
030-09-9-06121

VHSL States Round 6 Page 6 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. One class of these are circuit gateways and they can be used to make a DMZ. An example of a stateful
one is iptables and NAT can be configured to act like a very basic one. Application-Layer ones use
knowledge about the content to make decisions. They protect against things like denial of service attacks.
Common techniques include port blocking and packet filtering. Usually they must be configured to allow
new trusted programs and services to access the internet. For 10 points, name these pieces of software or
hardware that protect computers from network based attacks.
ANSWER: firewalls
001-09-9-06122

7. This president played a central role in cleaning up a meltdown at the Canadian Chalk River facility. This
man defeated "Cufflinks Carl" Sanders and feuded with Lester Maddox while governor. He made the Pole
Zbigniew Brzezinski (zeh-big-NEEF BREZ-ez-in-ski] the National Security Adviser. This president
delivered the "Malaise" speech, addressing an energy crisis during his term. This man won the Nobel Peace
Prize in 2002, signed the Camp David Accords, and was unable to negotiate the release of American
hostages during the Iran embassy crisis. For 10 points, name this Democratic president who preceded
Reagan.
ANSWER: James Earl "Jimmy" Carter Jr.
020-09-9-06123

8. The earliest definition of this term involved the use of tens to the seventh and negative seventh and was
named for John Napier. Numbers of this type are made up of an integer called the characteristic and a
fraction called the mantissa. Taking this operation to the multiplication of two components is equivalent to
adding the values of this operation to those components individually. The derivative of one type of this
function is equal to one over x. That type is taken in the base of e and is called the natural type of this. For
10 points, name this function that is the inverse of an exponent.
ANSWER: logarithms [or Napierian logarithms; or natural logarithms]
023-09-9-06124

9. This general and his brother Lucius were put on trial after giving magnanimous peace terms to Antiochus
III (an-TIE-oh-kuss the third). He illegally assumed the aedileship (EY-dye-ul-ship) at age 23, claiming that
the will of the voters overruled the minimum-age law. He won the battles of Baecula (BIKE-yoo-la) and
Ilipa (EEL-ee-puh) in Spain during a campaign that saw him fight against Hasdrubal Barca at Zama
(ZAH-ma). For 10 points, name this Roman general whose 202 BCE defeat of Hannibal ended the Second
Punic War and earned him the honorary name "Africanus."
ANSWER: Publius Cornelius Scipio Africanus Major [or Scipio Africanus the Elder]
019-09-9-06125

10. This composer was moved by the deteriorating condition of Clara Schumann to compose the pessimistic
piece Four Serious Songs. "Gaudeamus Igitur" (gow-day-AH-mus IH-gih-tur) is among the student songs
incorporated into one of this man's works. The czardas [char-dash] A Memory of Bartfa provided the theme
to the first of this man's Hungarian Dances. This composer wrote The Academic Festival Overture, as well
as a first symphony that was nicknamed "Beethoven's Tenth." For 10 points, name this 19th century German
composer of of a Lullaby.
ANSWER: Johannes Brahms
030-09-9-06126

VHSL States Round 6 Page 7 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

11. In this novel, a hermit claimed that he would have been pope had the monasteries not been abolished,
and a subplot in this work involves Hugh tricking his brother Miles Hendon in order to marry Edith. One of
the title characters used the royal seal to crack nuts, and that character is a native of the slum Offal Court.
For 10 points, name this work by Mark Twain about Tom Canty being mistaken for the future Edward VI.
ANSWER: The Prince and the Pauper
030-09-9-06127

12. This deity was nurtured in Zeus's stomach when Zeus swallowed her mother Metis. This deity engaged
in a contest in which Poseidon created the first horse, and she became the namesake of a city after she
offered the first olive tree. The head of the Gorgon Medusa is at the center of this goddess's shield, the Aegis.
The Roman equivalent of this goddess is Minerva. For 10 points, name this Greek goddess of knowledge
and justice, the namesake of a Greek city-state.
ANSWER: Pallas Athena [accept Athene; accept Pallas; accept Minerva before read]
026-09-9-06128

13. This man died after taking Revelation literally and eating twenty-four chapters of the Book of Kings.
Yohannes IV brokered a peace between this man and Teklehamanot while this man ruled Shewa. Though he
is not Japanese, he named his grandson Iyasu his successor. This man's most important military victory was
sparked by a dispute between translations of the Treaty of Wichale; upon discovering the translation, he
immediately wrote to Britain, France, and Germany insisting his country was still independent, then defeated
Italy at Adowa. For 10 points, name this emperor of Ethiopia from 1889 to 1913.
ANSWER: Menilek II [or Menelik II; or Sahle Miriam; or Sahle Mariam; prompt on Menelik]
003-09-9-06129

14. The enzyme that produces this compound has segments called F0 and F1 connected by a rotating axle.
This compound is converted into a cyclic signal transduction second messenger called cAMP ("camp"). The
Embden-Meyerhof pathway produces two molecules of NADH and two molecules of this compound.
Hydrogen ions are pumped across a gradient to produce this compound in oxidative phosphorylation
(OX-ih-DAY-tive FOSS-FOR-ill-AY-shun). For 10 points, name this "energy transfer currency" of the cell,
a compound that contains three phosphate groups and goes by a three-letter acronym.
ANSWER: ATP [or adenosine triphosphate; or adenosine 5' (five-prime) triphosphate]
026-09-9-06130

15. One character in this novel deduces that her husband is having an affair by sniffing his dirty laundry,
which reveals that Barbara Lynch is her husband's lover. Doctor Juvenal Urbino dies in this novel when he
falls from a tree trying to capture a parrot. This book tells of the long-lasting love of Florentino Ariza for
Fermina Daza. At the end of this novel, the two elderly lovers are must sail up and down a river for the rest
of their lives because they claim to be contaminated by the title malady. For 10 points, name this novel set in
the age of a certain disease, written by Gabriel Garcia Marquez.
ANSWER: Love in the Time of Cholera [accept El Amor en los Tiempos de Colera]
026-09-9-06131

VHSL States Round 6 Page 8 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL States
Round 6
Tiebreaker Questions
1. Drugs containing a compound called artemisinin (AR-tuh-mih-SINE-in) are used to treat this disease,
whose severity is lessened in individuals with thalassaemias (THAL-uh-SEEM-ee-uhs). Those who
completely lack receptor proteins called Duffy antigens are immune to one form of this disease. Individuals
who are heterozygous for the mutated allele for sickle cell anemia are at far less risk for this disease. Its
longtime treatment was derived from Cinchona (sin-CHO-nuh) bark. For 10 points, the parasite Plasmodium
causes what disease that was once treated by quinine (KWY-nine) and is spread by mosquitoes?
ANSWER: malaria
064-09-9-06132

2. This element forms a namesake cycle with sulfur whose net reactant is water and net products are
hydrogen gas and oxygen gas. A hormone that includes this element is thyroxine (thy-ROX-een), which
loses one atom of this element to yield its active form. Preparations of this element include Lugol's solution,
and its presence in the diet prevents goiter. For 10 points, name this halogen often used as a test for starch
and in a disinfecting agent, which on the periodic table appears below bromine but above astatine.
ANSWER: iodine
022-09-9-06133

3. After planting a vineyard, this figure became drunk and lied down naked in his tent, where he was seen by
his youngest son. That incident caused this man to curse one of his grandsons to be "the lowest of slaves" to
his brothers. This father of Shem, Japheth, and Ham made use a raven and dove to explore his surroundings
at one point. That came before this man entered into the so-called Rainbow Covenant protecting all life from
the recurrence of the event with which this man is most associated. For 10 points, name this Biblical figure
who was commanded by God to build an ark to survive the great flood.
ANSWER: Noah [or Noe; or Noyach]
023-09-9-06134

4. This mountain system includes the Tethys range. Darjeeling is a city in this system’s Siwalik range. In
Kashmir, this mountain system begins at the mountain Nanga Parbat. In the northwest these mountains run
into the Karakorum range. These mountains are the source of the Brahmaputra river. They run through Uttar
Pradesh, and the city Kathmandu is found in them. The Ganges runs to the south of these mountains, which
cover Bhutan and Nepal. For 10 points, name this group of mountain ranges in Tibet and India that includes
Mount Everest.
ANSWER: Himalayas [or Himalayan mountains]
027-09-9-06135

5. The con men and grifters who populate this author's stories include Einhorn and Tamkin. Among this
author's literary alter egos is Chick, who narrates a story describing the death of a professor very much like
this author's friend Allen Bloom, Ravelstein. One of his most famous characters writes letters he will never
send, to people like his ex-wife Madeline. For 10 points, name this Canadian-American author of The
Adventures of Augie March and Herzog, who won a 1976 Pulitzer Prize for Humboldt's Gift.
ANSWER: Saul Bellow [or Solomon Belo]
062-09-9-06136

VHSL States Round 6 Page 9 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

