VHSL Regionals
Round 6
First Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. Opposition to this person's policies was organized by the Secret Army Organization. This man was
appointed Prime Minister by René Coty during the turbulent period of the Algerian question. The
constitution that created the Fifth Republic was drafted by this man, who became that republic's first
president. Earlier, this man led his country's opposition to the Vichy regime. For 10 points, name this man
who, during World War II, led the Free French Forces against Nazi rule.
ANSWER: Charles André Joseph Marie de Gaulle
023-09-7-06101

2. In one short story by this author, ten high schoolers are blindfolded and sent into a boxing match won by
Tatlock. That story became the first chapter of this man’s only novel and is entitled "Battle Royal." Herbert
Bledsoe is the president of the college, and a back-to-Africa supporter named Ras the Destroyer criticizes
the Brotherhood, in that same novel by this author, who created a narrator living illegally in an all-white
apartment building near Harlem. For 10 points, name this author of Invisible Man.
ANSWER: Ralph Waldo Ellison
027-09-7-06102

3. One application of this field is the creation of expert systems. The "strong" form of this was attacked by
Searle in the Chinese Room Argument. Techniques used to create it include neural networks. Applications
of it include natural language processing and computer vision. The ultimate benchmark in this field is the
Turing test, in which a person attempts, by conversation, to tell a person apart from a computer. For 10
points, identify this area of research in computer science, which attempts to create software and robots that
emulate human mental function.
ANSWER: artificial intelligence [or AI]
001-09-7-06103

4. The sixth ruler of this empire reinstituted the jizya (JEEZ-ya) tax and was named Aurangzeb
(AH-rung-zeb). Another ruler of this empire lost most of its lands to Sher Shah Suri and was named
Humayun (HOO-mah-yuhn). A mausoleum was built after the death of Mumtaz, the wife of this empire's
ruler, Shah Jahan. This empire was founded by Babur and reached its greatest height under the rule of
Akbar. For 10 points, name this Muslim empire that ruled over India.
ANSWER: Mughal Empire
023-09-7-06104

5. In Hindu myth, the fish Matsya (MAHT-sha) protected Manu from one of these events. In Norse myth,
Bergelmir (BUR-gul-meer) and his wife founded Jotunheim (YO-tun-hime) after surviving one of these. In
Babylonian myth, the gods decided to create one of these to punish humanity for being too loud, but Ea
warned Utnapishtim (OOT-nuh-PISH-tim) about it. Archaeologists suggest that all of these myths may have
been based on a real event that occurred around 5500 BCE. For 10 points, identify this kind of catastrophe,
that was also survived by Noah.
ANSWER: great floods [or great deluges]
003-09-7-06105

VHSL Regionals Round 6 Page 1 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. One problem that occurs in this organ involves the blocking of its neck in Hartmann's pouch. Along with
affecting the pancreas, the secretion of cholecystokinin (KOHL-uh-SIS-toh-KEE-nin) causes this organ to
release its contents into the small intestine. This pear-shaped organ is located in a fossa, or a small
depression, that places this organ directly beneath another with which it shares a common duct. For 10
points, name this organ that is found directly underneath the liver, and is responsible for the storage of bile.
ANSWER: gallbladder
023-09-7-06106

7. In 1827, this composer wrote "The Hurdy Gurdy Man" as part of his song cycle of Wilhelm (VIL-helm)
Mueller poems entitled Winterreise (vin-ter-ICE-uh). His song "Die Forelle" (for-ELL-uh) inspired another
of his works that is scored for piano, violin, viola, cello, and double-bass. He also composed a symphony
that quotes from his Rosamunde and contains only two complete movements. For 10 points, name this
Austrian master of the lieder (LEE-der), who composed the Trout Quintet and his eighth symphony, the
Unfinished.
ANSWER: Franz Peter Schubert
026-09-7-06107

8. Before being executed, this man stated, "I did not wrong, but right." J. E. B. Stuart unsuccessfully
attempted, under a flag of truce, to get this man to surrender. Two of this insurgent's twenty children were
killed during his most famous operation, which was put down by United States Army Colonel Robert E Lee.
Earlier, this man executed five members of the Law and Order Party at Pottawatomie Creek. For 10 points,
name this radical abolitionist who tried to spark a slave revolt by attacking the armory at Harpers Ferry,
Virginia.
ANSWER: John Brown
063-09-7-06108

9. This rock is similar in composition to pegmatite and aplite, and it can be classified as I or S type. This
rock is a common component of batholiths. It has relatively high sodium and potassium levels compared to
magnesium and calcium. A finer-grained form is rhyolite. It is rich in alkali feldspars and quartz. It is less
dense than basalt, which causes oceanic plates to subduct below tectonic plates made of this type of rock.
For 10 points, name this light-colored felsic igneous rock which makes up a major portion of the continental
crust.
ANSWER: granite
001-09-7-06109

10. This man made a thirty-minute televised speech called "A Time for Choosing" in support of Barry
Goldwater. This man was criticized for testing a live radio microphone with the joking statement "I've just
signed legislation outlawing Russia forever. The bombing begins in five minutes." He fired thousands of
striking air traffic controllers early in his Presidency, and he was shot by John Hinckley. For 10 points, name
this politician, who defeated Jimmy Carter to win the presidency in 1980.
ANSWER: Ronald Wilson Reagan
030-09-7-06110

11. In one song this artist asks "you don't know what it is, do you, Mister Jones?" Another song by this
singer includes the character Mack the Finger and sees God tell Abraham to sacrifice Isaac in the title place.
This singer of "Ballad of the Thin Man" advised "you better start swimmin' or you'll sink like a stone" in
another song. This singer of "Highway 61 Revisited" and "The Times They are a-Changing" asked "how
many times must the cannon balls fly?" in "Blowin' in the Wind." For 10 points, name this folk singer of
"Like a Rolling Stone."
ANSWER: Bob Dylan [or Robert Allen Zimmerman]
015-09-7-06111
VHSL Regionals Round 6 Page 2 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

12. This playwright wrote about a woman who forges her father’s signature to get money from Krogstad. In
one of this man’s plays, waste pollutes baths that employ Dr. Thomas Stockmann. This man wrote a play
where Judge Brack discovers the owner of a pistol that Eilert Lovborg used to kill himself. George
Tessman;s wife shoots herself in a play by this author of An Enemy of the People. Torvald Helmer, a bank
manager, is left by his wife Nora in another play by, for 10 points, what author of Hedda Gabler and A
Doll’s House ?
ANSWER: Henrik Johan Ibsen
027-09-7-06112

13. This goddess punished the stingy Alcinoe (al-SEE-know), who ultimately leapt into the sea. She caused
the blindness of Tiresias (tye-REE-see-us), who had watched this goddess bathe. This goddess won a contest
when her olive tree was deemed more useful than Poseidon's salty well. This daughter of Metis turned
Arachne into a spider after losing a weaving contest. She was born when Hephaestus split Zeus's head open.
For 10 points, name this Greek goddess of wisdom and war.
ANSWER: Athena [or Minerva; or Pallas]
015-09-7-06113

14. Both James Dewar and Albert Ladenburg proposed incorrect structures of this compound. Fusing two
molecules of these compounds together forms the primary ingredient in mothballs. Attaching a methyl group
to this compound forms a product that is the second "t" in TNT. Friedrich Kekule (KEK-yool) determined
the structure of this compound, which is a strong carcinogen and was replaced by tetraethyl
(TET-ruh-ETH-ul) lead as an additive in gasoline. For 10 points, name this compound that is a six member
ring with alternating double and single bonds, and has formula C6H6.
ANSWER: benzene [accept C6H6 before it is read]
064-09-7-06114

15. Though it is not the location of Vienna, this country was that home to the composer of "The Viennese
Musical Clock," which is a movement in the Hary Janos (HAR-ee YAH-nos) Suite. One composer from
here coined the term "symphonic poem" and wrote the Dante Symphony. Another composer from here
composed Music for Strings, Percussion, and Celesta and The Miraculous Mandarin. "The Rakoczy
(ruh-COX-ee) March" is quoted in one of the nineteen rhapsodies named for this country. For 10 points,
name this home nation of Zoltan Kodaly (ko-DIE), Bela Bartok, and Franz Liszt.
ANSWER: Hungary [or Magyarorszag]
027-09-7-06115

VHSL Regionals Round 6 Page 3 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Regionals
Round 6
Directed Round
1A. This character unleashes his poison gas on a talk show audience after leaving Arkham Asylum in The
Dark Knight Returns. Name this psychopathic clown from DC Comics.
ANSWER: The Joker
1B. The title track of his album Sleep Through the Static states "we went beyond where we should have
gone." Identify this singer who also wrote "If I Had Eyes" and "Same Girl" on that album.
ANSWER: Jack Johnson
2A. These lepton particles have a charge of negative one. To move between energy levels in an atom, they
give off or take in a photon. Identify these fermions.
ANSWER: electrons
2B. This inventor created a tinfoil phonograph when studying telegraph transmitters, and he also created the
first motion picture. Name this inventor of the first practical incandescent lightbulb.
ANSWER: Thomas Alva Edison
3A. This element is found with calcium and silicate in asbestos, and when combined with calcium carbonate
it can be found as dolomite. Name this element, which is also found at the center of the porphyrin
(POOR-fuh-rin) ring in chlorophyll.
ANSWER: magnesium [or Mg]
3B. This member of the Vienna Secession painted an expensive portrait of Adele Bloch-Bauer (uh-DEL-uh
BLOCK bow-er). Name this painter who used gold in his paintings of Judith and Holofernes
(hall-AH-fer-nayz), and painted The Kiss.
ANSWER: Gustav Klimt
4A. This is a 10-second calculation question. Find three-fifths raised to the third power.
ANSWER: 27/125
4B. This is a 10-second calculation question. Find the slope of the line with the equation 9x + 6y = -2.
ANSWER: -3/2
5A. In French, this word means "I," as in "I am hungry." What is this word that, followed by the word "suis"
(swee), means "I am?"
ANSWER: je (zhuh)
5B. Pepsin is an enzyme used in the gastric juices found in this organ. Identify this organ of the digestive
tract, that has sphincters at the esophagus and the pylorus.
ANSWER: stomach

VHSL Regionals Round 6 Page 4 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6A. This is a 20-second calculation question. Multiply 0.9 by 6.41.
ANSWER: 5.769
6B. This is a 20-second calculation question. If y varies inversely with x, and y is 15 when x is 16, what is y
when x is 12?
ANSWER: 20
7A. What woman marries the Norman doctor Charles before having affairs with Rodolphe Boulanger and
Leon Dupuis in a French novel?
ANSWER: Madame Emma Bovary
7B. Edmund Spenser names one form of this kind of poem. Identify this poetic form, which was used by
Shakespeare for a poem that begins, "Shall I compare thee to a summer’s day?"
ANSWER: sonnet
8A. Lolo National Forest can be found in this state, which is home to the city of Pocatello. Name this home
state of Craters of the Moon National Monument and Boise.
ANSWER: Idaho
8B. This man contested a runoff election against Abdullah Abdullah in 2009 before Abdullah withdrew in
protest. Name this president, who replaced Mullah Omar in 2001.
ANSWER: Hamid Karzai
9A. This is a 30-second calculation question. Convert the point (-6, 6 times the square root of 3) to polar
form.
ANSWER: (12, 120 degrees) [or (12, 2 pi/3)]
9B. This is a 30-second calculation question. A population of four individuals have heights of 68, 62, 69,
and 61 inches. Find the variance of this population.
ANSWER: 12.5
10A. What technique involves using the same consonant sound repeatedly to begin all the stressed syllables
in a line of poetry?
ANSWER: alliteration
10B. What linguist created the idea of a "Language Acquisition Device" as part of his theory of generative
grammar?
ANSWER: Avram Noam Chomsky

VHSL Regionals Round 6 Page 5 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Regionals
Round 6
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. In this country, a conspiracy to assassinate King Joseph I was crushed by the Marquis de Pombal. One
dictator of this country was an economist who established the Estado Novo. This country, which was ruled
by Antonio Salazar, was controlled by the Braganza Dynasty until the twentieth century. It was called
Lusitania by the Romans and was given the land east of the line of demarcation in the Treaty of Tordesillas
(tor-deh-SEE-yas). For 10 points, name this Iberian country which suffered a 1755 earthquake in its capital
of Lisbon.
ANSWER: Portugal
015-09-7-06117

2. The enzyme adenylate cyclase (aa-DEN-uh-late SIK-laze) produces a "cyclic" secondary messenger from
this molecule. This molecule is produced by an enzyme with a characteristic "gun barrel" structure, in which
an axle-like structure turns and adds a phosphate group to another molecule. Glycolysis (gli-CAHL-uh-sis)
results in the net creation of two of these molecules, which are also produced in the oxidative
phosphorylation (FOS-for-uh-LAY-shun) step of the electron transport chain. For 10 points, name this
molecule referred to as the "energy currency of the cell."
ANSWER: ATP [or adenosine 5-prime triphosphate]
026-09-7-06118

3. The third section of this poem features the Smyrna merchant Mr. Eugenides (yoo-JEN-id-eez). Other
characters in this poem include Tiresias, who is described as having "wrinkled dugs," and Madame
Sosostris. Its final section, "What the Thunder Said," ends with the repetition of the Sanskrit word "shantih."
It also contains sections titled "The Burial of the Dead" and "A Game of Chess." For 10 points, name this
poem which begins by characterizing April as "the cruellest month" and was written by T. S. Eliot.
ANSWER: "The Waste Land"
024-09-7-06119

4. In this war, operation Cedar Falls targeted the Iron Triangle and Operation Pegasus led to the battle of
Khe Sanh (KAY sahn). During this war, Thich Quang Duc (thit kwon dee-OOK) immolated himself in
protest of president Ngo Din Diem (NO din dee-EM). A surprise attack on the U.S. embassy occurred during
this war's Tet Offensive. Henry Kissinger negotiated its end, which led to Saigon's renaming as Ho Chi Minh
City. For 10 points, name this war that the United States fought in Southeast Asia in the 1960s and 70s.
ANSWER: Vietnam War
027-09-7-06120

5. One of this author's poems notes that the laurel "withers quicker than the rose." This author urged "Give
crowns and pounds and guineas, but not your heart away" in his poem "When I was One and Twenty." This
poet of "To an Athlete Dying Young" also wrote of a man who "eats his victuals fast enough." That poem by
this author also states that "malt does more than Milton can to justify God’s ways to man." For 10 points,
name this poet of "Terence, this is stupid stuff," which is found in his collection A Shropshire Lad.
ANSWER: Alfred Edward Housman
026-09-7-06121

VHSL Regionals Round 6 Page 6 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. Arcangelo (ar-CAN-jel-oh) Corelli wrote this in kind of composition’s “grosso” variant. Johannes
Brahms’s opus 102 is a “double” one for cello and violin. They are usually written in three movements that
are fast, slow, and fast, and performers often improvise a cadenza in them. Mstislav (MIS-ti-slahv)
Rostropovich was the dedicatee of two of these kinds of compositions by Shostakovich with a cello solo
part. They are often written for a soloist to be accompanied by an orchestra. For 10 points, name these
works, which include “Brandenburg” ones by Bach.
ANSWER: concertos
027-09-7-06122

7. One part of this work focuses on Prince Qamar (KAH-mar), who uses magical keys to fly a mechanical
ebony horse. In the frame story of this work, one character collaborates with her sister Dunyazad to prolong
her marriage to King Shahryar. Every evening in this work, that character breaks off her stories of such
characters as Ali Baba and Aladdin to prevent her execution. For 10 points, name this collection of stories
that are told by Scheherazade (shuh-HERR-uh-zod).
ANSWER: The Arabian Nights’ Entertainments [or The Thousand and One Arabian Nights; or Alf layla
wa-layla; accept anything reasonable that mentions both nights and either the number 1001 or some form of
the word Arabian or both]
004-09-7-06123

8. A military coup in this country installed a ruler who became one of the leading figures in Operation
Condor. This country's independence movement was helped by the Battle of Chacabuco. This country's first
supreme director fought in that battle and was named Bernardo O'Higgins. For 10 points, name this South
American country that, in 1973, switched from the socialist rule of Salvador Allende (EYE-end-ay) to the
dictatorship of Augusto Pinochet (PEE-noh-chayt).
ANSWER: Republic of Chile [or República de Chile]
023-09-7-06124

9. In this work, Mr. Graves supplies a three legged stool. A popular belief amongst the townspeople in this
work is that "corn be heavy soon." One character is seen at the beginning of this story guarding a pile. An
important object in this work is supplied by the manager of the coal business, Mr. Summers. After names are
drawn from a black box, Tessie Hutchinson screams, "It isn’t fair," as she realizes her impending doom. For
10 points, name this short story by Shirley Jackson about the annual stoning in a small town.
ANSWER: "The Lottery"
064-09-7-06125

10. Eighty percent of this country's population took a surname meaning "master of the blue wolf" after last
names were re-legalized here in 1995. Following this country's 1924 proclamation of a Communist state, its
capital received a new name meaning "Red Hero." The desolate areas of this country's west and south are
dominated by the Altai Mountains and the Gobi Desert. For 10 points, name this Asian country, which is
found south of Russia and north of China, and was the home of conquering horsemen in the late Middle
Ages.
ANSWER: Mongolia [or Mongol Uls]
019-09-7-06126

11. It is the result of the BPP formula and Machin-like formulas. Divided by four, it is equal to the Gregory
series. When dividing it by two, it is the answer to Buffon's needle problem. It is multiplied times i in Euler's
(OY-lurz) identity. Lindermann proved that it is transcendental, implying that the circle cannot be squared. It
is equal to 180 degrees divided by one radian. For 10 points, name this number, equal to the ratio of a circle's
circumference and its diameter, and symbolized by a Greek letter.
ANSWER: pi
001-09-7-06127
VHSL Regionals Round 6 Page 7 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

12. Canadian Roy Brown is credited with killing this man at Amiens (AH-mee-EN), leading to this person's
replacement as commander by Hermann Göring (GERR-ing). The whimsical decorations displayed by the
unit he commanded, the Jagdgeschwader (YOG-GED-gesh-vah-dare), or Flying Group 1, earned his unit the
nickname of "Flying Circus." This World war I ace had eighty kills and took his nickname from the color of
his triplane. For 10 points, give this more common name for feared German pilot Manfred von Richthofen
(RIK-toe-ven).
ANSWER: the Red Baron [or Der Rote Freiherr; or Der Rote Kampfflieger; accept Manfred von
Richthoften before "more common name" is read; prompt on Manfred von Richthoften after "more
common name" is read]
045-09-7-06128

13. This man painted his childhood friend in a rowing competition in the Schuylkill (SKOO-kull) River in
his work Max Schmitt in a Single Scull. He depicted nude bathers in The Swimming Hole. In one of his
paintings, a woman shields her eyes below a scribe who sits on a raised desk taking operative notes. In that
work by this artist, four assistants hold a retractor while a professor operates on a patient's femur at the
Jefferson Medical College. For 10 points, name this Philadelphia artist of The Gross Clinic.
ANSWER: Thomas Eakins
030-09-7-06129

14. This author wrote a novel in which the pages of a book by Aristotle are poisoned by Jorge (HOR-hay) of
Burgos, in a scheme discovered by Adso of Melk and his mentor, William of Baskerville. Another novel by
this author has the narrator study a manuscript by Colonel Ardenti which claims that the Knights Templar
will take over the world in 1944. That novel by him sees Belbo, a friend of Casaubon, hanged from the
titular device in the Musée des Arts et Métiers (myoos-AY days arts ay MAY-tee-ay). For 10 points, name
this Italian author of The Name of the Rose and Foucault's Pendulum.
ANSWER: Umberto Eco
058-09-7-06130

15. When graphing the results of this method, multiple transition regions can be seen when a chemical
worked with is polyprotic. Those graphs of this method's curves can be used to approximate the equivalence
point. Color changing substances such as methyl red and phenolphthalein (FEE-noll-thail-leen) are often
used as indicators during this process. For 10 points, name this common chemistry lab experiment that uses
a substance with a known pH to find the unknown pH or concentration of a solution, and often makes use of
a buret (burr-ET).
ANSWER: acid-base titration
023-09-7-06131

VHSL Regionals Round 6 Page 8 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Regionals
Round 6
Tiebreaker Questions
1. This man used the metaphor of the "tangled bank" in his most famous theory and later wrote about The
Formation of Vegetable Mould through the Action of Worms. His ideas were later debated between
Wilberforce and Huxley, who was known as this man's "bulldog." This author of The Descent of Man
noticed variation in the beaks of Galápagos Finches while traveling on the HMS Beagle. For 10 points, name
this British naturalist who described his theory of natural selection in On the Origin of Species
ANSWER: Charles Robert Darwin
001-09-7-06132

2. In the presence of a magnetic field, the energy separation between the most and least stable of these
orbitals is two times the field magnitude in units of Bohr magnetons. Electrons delocalizing from these
orbitals leads to resonance and aromaticity. Elements with this subshell partially filled include halogens,
which have five electrons in it. Overlaps between examples of these orbitals, when left unhybridized, lead to
pi bonds. For 10 points, give the letter that denotes the three orbitals that make up a namesake subshell that
is filled following the 2s (two "s") subshell.
ANSWER: p
022-09-7-06133

3. This former resident of Antwerp embroiders gloves for Bellingham. This character plans on leaving her
home on Election Day, but she doesn't make it. Earlier, this character's lover was driven to madness by a
mysterious doctor who is finally revealed to be Chillingsworth, this character's husband. For 10 points, name
this Massachusetts resident who is the lover of Dimmesdale, mother of Pearl, and wearer of the title object in
Nathaniel Hawthorne's The Scarlet Letter.
ANSWER: Hester Prynne [or Hester Prynne]
062-09-7-06134

4. This figure is first mentioned in Luke 8:13. According to one tradition, she lived in a cave in France for
the last decades of her life. According to some accounts, she is the same as an individual "from Bethany"
and the sibling of Martha and Lazarus. Christ's feet were once anointed by this woman, who has seven devils
expelled from her body. The Second Vatican Council removed the label of ex-prostitute from this apostle.
For 10 points, identify this foremost female follower of Jesus, the first to see him after the resurrection.
ANSWER: Mary Magdalene [or Mary of Magdala; do not accept or prompt "Mary"]
063-09-7-06135

5. Lewis Mumford wrote a book about these entities "in History." Ernest Burgess included the CBD at the
center of his concentric zone model of these. Lincoln Steffens attacked their inherent corruption in a book
about "The Shame of" them. Joel Garreau listed Boomers and Greenfields as examples the "Edge" variety of
these entities. Early examples of these include Çatalhöyük (chuh-tahl-HOOK), Eridu, and Mohenjo-daro.
For 10 points, name these entities which are surrounded by suburbs.
ANSWER: cities
015-09-7-06136

VHSL Regionals Round 6 Page 9 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

