VHSL Districts
Round 2
First Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. In 2003, this leader removed his country from the Commonwealth of Nations in protest of pending
suspension from the group. In 2005, he ordered the destruction of temporary housing as part of "Operation
Drive Out the Rubbish." A 2008 power sharing agreement saw Morgan Tsvangirai (suh-VAIN-guh-ree)
become the Prime Minister, while this man retained the Presidency and his ZANU-PF retained control of the
Army. For 10 points, name this dictator of Zimbabwe.
ANSWER: Robert Mugabe
002-09-3-02101

2. Joyce Carol Oates claimed that the most memorable remark in this play is that the title character is
"liked...but not well liked." A character in this play gave up a football scholarship after he flunked a math
class. One scene in this play takes place at Frank's Chop House, where Biff tells Happy that he stole a pen
from Bill Oliver. This play ends with Linda talking to the grave of her dead husband. Willy Loman commits
suicide by means of an automobile crash in, for 10 points, what play by Arthur Miller?
ANSWER: Death of a Salesman
003-09-3-02102

3. The start of this event was signaled via telegram by Heinrich Müller. Three days after this event, the
government ordered insurance companies not to pay out claims arising from it. It was a reaction to the
assassination of diplomat Ernst vom Rath and was spurred on by a Joseph Goebbels (GUR-bulz) speech. It
occurred on November 9 and 10, 1938, and targeted Jewish homes, businesses, and synagogues. For 10
points, the smashing of windows during what event gave rise to its name, meaning "Night of the Broken
Glass?"
ANSWER: Kristallnacht (KREE-stahl-knocked) [accept Night of the Broken Glass before it is read]
045-09-3-02103

4. The speaker of this poem describes an "eli eli lamma lamma sabachthani (sah-BOK-tah-nee) saxophone
cry that shivered the cities." This poem's third section features the refrain "I'm with you in Rockland." The
second section of this poem repeatedly refers to Moloch. The opening of this poem describes the
"angel-headed hipsters" as "starving hysterical naked." For 10 points, name this Beat Generation poem that
begins "I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness" and was written by Allen Ginsberg.
ANSWER: "Howl"
024-09-3-02104

5. This man coined the term "symphonic poem," which is exemplified by a piece this man composed based
on a poem by Alphonse de Lamartine (lah-mar-TEEN), titled Les Preludes. He was inspired by The Divine
Comedy to write his "Dante" Symphony. A Hans von Bulow and the Rakoczi (rah-COK-zee) March are
among the pieces in one collection by this man. His virtuosity as a touring pianist inspired his namesake
mania to sweep Europe. For 10 points, name this composer of the Hungarian Rhapsodies.
ANSWER: Franz Liszt
030-09-3-02105

6. Christmas Disease is caused by a defect in this structure, as is Duchenne (du-SHEN) muscular dystrophy.
Martin-Bell Syndrome is a symptom of a "fragile" one of these structures. Inactive ones condense and
become a Barr body. An abnormally low number of these structures in a person can lead to amenorrhea
(AY-MEN-oh-REE-uh) and infertility in Turner Syndrome. For 10 points, name this structure that contains
the genetic cause of hemophilia, two of which are found in women.
ANSWER: X chromosome
034-09-3-02106
VHSL Districts Round 2 Page 1 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

7. After the death of Shirkuh (SHUR-kuh), this man became the vizier of Nur ad-Din (NUR ahd DIN). This
ruler ended the reign of the Fatimid dynasty in Egypt, and founded the Ayyubid (EYE-oo-bid) dynasty. He
captured Reginald of Chatillon (shah-tee-YON) and Guy of Lusignan (GEE of LOO-seen-YON) at the
Battle of the Horns of Hattin, and he recaptured Jerusalem from the Crusaders in 1187. For 10 points, name
this Muslim ruler who fought Richard the Lionhearted during the Third Crusade.
ANSWER: Saladin [or Salah ah-Din Yusuf]
004-09-3-02107

8. This man's first novel is about a boy who is fixated on an Andrea Mantegna (mon-TANE-yuh) painting of
Saint Sebastian. Another of his novels contains a riddle called "Nansen kills a kitten." This author of
Confessions of a Mask wrote about Father Dosen, who flirts with a geisha, and Mizoguchi
(miz-oh-GOO-chee), a stammering protagonist who burns down the title structure because it is beautiful. For
10 points, name this seppuku (SEH-puh-koo)-committing Japanese author of The Temple of the Golden
Pavilion and the Sea of Fertility tetralogy.
ANSWER: Yukio Mishima [or Mishima Yukio; do not accept or prompt on "Yukio" by itself; or Kimitake
Hiraoka; or Hiraoka Kimitake; do not accept or prompt on "Kimitake" by itself]
034-09-3-02108

9. This data structure implements hash tables, stacks, and queues (KYOOZ). "Packed" ones store multiple
contiguous elements in one word. Associative ones can have strings for indices. These structures may be
replaced by linked lists so that they can grow and shrink, and a naive search method on this structure
succeeds in linear time. For 10 points, name this linear data structure in which each element can be accessed
by its index.
ANSWER: arrays
022-09-3-02109

10. The Trung (TROO-un) sisters fought for the independence of this modern-day country. Buddhist monks
burned themselves to death here to protest the actions of Ngo Dinh Diem (NO din dee-EM). It was the site
of the siege of a French garrison at Dien Bien Phu (DEE-yen BEE-yen FOO). The USS Maddox was
allegedly attacked by part of this country in the Gulf of Tonkin; four years later, the Tet Offensive took place
here. For 10 points, name this country where the US fought a war from 1964 to 1973.
ANSWER: Vietnam [do not accept "North Vietnam" or "South Vietnam", as the question clearly asks for
"this modern-day country"]
059-09-3-02110

11. This body of water's Vozrozhdeyina (vahz-RAHZ-din-ey) Island was once the site of a bioweapons
facility. The construction of the Dike Kokaral (koh-kuh-RAHL) Dam raised the northern half of this sea by
eight meters. That is in sharp contrast to the effects of the construction of the Qaraqum (KAR-uh-koom)
Canal and other irrigation measures, that caused its water levels to plummet drastically during the twentieth
century. The Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers feed, for 10 points, which Asian sea, shared between
Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan?
ANSWER: Aral Sea
040-09-3-02111

12. The oxide of this element is found in rubies and sapphires as corundum. Charles Hall, Paul Heroult
(huh-ROO), and Karl Bayer all developed methods to extract and purify this element from its main ore,
bauxite. Though it is found along the Zintl (ZIN-tel) line, it is considered a metal and not a semimetal. For
10 points, name this element with atomic number thirteen, that is used in soda cans and abbreviated Al.
ANSWER: aluminum [or Al before it is read]
032-09-3-02112

VHSL Districts Round 2 Page 2 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

13. The only work by this painter that is permanently held in the United States is his portrait of Ginevra di
Benci (jih-NAVE-ruh dee BEN-chee). He depicted the angel Uriel holding the infant John the Baptist, who
is ushered towards the infant Christ by Mary. This artist of Lady with an Ermine used the sfumato
(sfoo-MAH-toe) style to paint his works. This artist of Virgin of the Rocks traced out ideal human
proportions in his sketch of the Vitruvian Man. For 10 points, name this artist who also painted the
enigmatically smiling Mona Lisa.
ANSWER: Leonardo da Vinci [or Leonardo di ser Piero da Vinci]
060-09-3-02113

14. Shell companies created by this corporation included a pair named JEDI and Chewco. This company's
former president Jeffrey Skilling is serving a twenty-four-year prison sentence, and former CEO Kenneth
Lay died after being convicted in 2006. This company's collaboration with the firm Arthur Andersen
inspired the Sarbannes-Oxley Act, by using "creative accounting" tactics that allowed it to rise to fifth on the
Fortune 500. For 10 points, name this Houston-based energy corporation whose collapse triggered a wave of
corporate bankruptcies in 2002.
ANSWER: Enron Corporation
019-09-3-02114

15. The work Peri Lithon (PEAR-ee LEE-thon) by Theophrastus (THEE-oh-FRAS-tuss) was an
authoritative text in this field for nearly a millennium. Nicholas Steno's law of superposition was important
to this field's development. James Hutton is considered the father of this field, and Hutton's disciples were
called Plutonists because they believed that volcanic activity was the cause of many rock formations.
Charles Lyell wrote a book on the principles of it. For 10 points, name this branch of science that studies the
materials that comprise the Earth.
ANSWER: geology [prompt on stratigraphy]
040-09-3-02115

VHSL Districts Round 2 Page 3 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Districts
Round 2
Directed Round
1A. Identify the language whose main writing systems are kanji (CON-jee), katakana (kah-tuh-KAH-nuh)
and hiragana (HEAR-uh-gah-nuh), the latter two of which are syllabic.
ANSWER: Japanese [or Nihongo]
1B. Identify the metabolic pathway that converts glucose into pyruvate (pie-ROO-veyt).
ANSWER: glycolysis
2A. In October 2009, what Burmese dissident leader's appeal of her eighteen-month prison sentence was
rejected, effectively blocking her from participating in the 2010 elections?
ANSWER: Aung San Suu Kyi (soo kyee)
2B. What sculptor of The Gates of Hell and The Burghers of Calais (cah-LAY) is better known for a
sculpture which may have been modeled on Dante?
ANSWER: Auguste Rodin
3A. What Colin Meloy-fronted band's most recent release is The Hazards of Love, which follows previous
albums including Picaresque and The Crane Wife?
ANSWER: The Decemberists
3B. What British inventor of the analytical engine is often considered the father of the computer?
ANSWER: Charles Babbage
4A. This is a 10-second calculation question. Multiply one and a half by two and a third.
ANSWER: 7/2 [or three and a half or 3.5]
4B. This is a 10-second calculation question. Solve the equation 5x + 21 = 2x - 15.
ANSWER: x = -12
5A. Mauna Kea and Mauna Loa are examples of what type of volcano, which is formed from the lengthy,
calm flow of magma over a large area?
ANSWER: shield volcano
5B. Identify the comic book superhero who is transformed by Vita-Rays and Super Soldier Serum, opposess
the Red Skull, and is the alter-ego of Steve Rogers.
ANSWER: Captain America
6A. This is a 20-second calculation question. Give the equation of the line with slope 5 passing through the
point (-9, -8).
ANSWER: y = 5x+37 [or y+8 = 5(x+9)]

VHSL Districts Round 2 Page 4 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6B. This is a 20-second calculation question. A regular dodecagon has a side length of 18 inches. What is
the perimeter of this figure?
ANSWER: 216 inches
7A. Name the American city that lies at the confluence of the Allegheny and Monongahela rivers, where
those waterways form the Ohio River.
ANSWER: Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
7B. It was popularized by James Joyce and Virginia Woolf. Identify this narrative technique, that involves
the representation of the interior monologues of characters.
ANSWER: stream of consciousness
8A. Examples of this device include Plato's tale of the cave from The Republic. Give this literary term for a
story which metaphorically conveys a non-literal meaning.
ANSWER: allegory
8B. Czech President Václav Klaus has yet to sign this 2007 treaty, though the other twenty-six European
Union member states have done so. Name this treaty that, if ratified, will amend the treaties of Rome and
Maastricht (MAH-strict) and create a new EU constitution.
ANSWER: Treaty of Lisbon
9A. This is a 30-second calculation question. Find the Celsius temperature that corresponds to 77 degrees
Fahrenheit.
ANSWER: 25 degrees Celsius
9B. This is a 30-second calculation question. A group of seven teams meets in a competition to select two
qualifiers for further contests. How many different sets of two qualifiers can be chosen?
ANSWER: 21
10A. What quantum mechanical principle states that it is impossible to know both the position and
momentum of a particle to arbitrary precision?
ANSWER: Heisenberg uncertainty principle [or uncertainty principle]
10B. Edward Sapir, Alfred Kroeber, and Margaret Mead were some of Columbia University students taught
by what influential figure in American anthropology, who also wrote The Mind of Primitive Man?
ANSWER: Franz Boas

VHSL Districts Round 2 Page 5 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Districts
Round 2
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. In reaction to this character's death, her fiancee spits on the king and then falls on a sword. This character
proclaims "if it's a crime, then it's a crime that God commands" to defend an action that she cannot persuade
her sister Ismene (iz-MEE-nee) to assist with. Defying a decree of Creon, she performs burial rites for her
brother Polynices (pahl-uh-NEE-keez). For 10 points, identify this daughter of Oedipus (ED-uh-poss) and
title heroine of a Greek tragedy by Sophocles.
ANSWER: Antigone (an-TIH-go-nee)
019-09-3-02117

2. The AKS algorithm tests to see if an entity is one of these and Wilson's theorem gives a condition for
them. Their namesake theorem states that the probability of a number being this is about one over the natural
log. They can be found using the Sieve of Eratosthenes (air-uh-TOSS-thuh-neez). Euclid proved there were
infinitely many of them and types of these are named for Fermat and Mersenne. For 10 points, name these
numbers that have no divisors other than one and itself.
ANSWER: prime numbers
001-09-3-02118

3. Alpheus Williams took command of the slain Joseph Mansfield’s Twelfth Corps during this battle, and
James Longstreet’s artillery drove back Richardson in the Bloody Lane here. This battle was affected by the
discovery of "Special Order 191," containing the Confederate battle plans, and it was quickly followed by
the Emancipation Proclamation. It featured Ambrose Hill’s crucial counterattack and McClellan’s refusal to
press on. For 10 points, name this 1862 loss for Lee in Maryland, which was the bloodiest battle of the Civil
War.
ANSWER: Battle of Antietam [or Battle of Sharpsburg]
060-09-3-02119

4. This instrument now performs music that was written for the basset horn in the classical era. It has three
registers, including one called "chalumeau" (shah-loo-MOE). One performer of this instrument was
nicknamed “The King of Swing.” A glissando on this instrument opens George Gershwin's Rhapsody in
Blue. This woodwind has one reed and is most commonly played in its B flat and A types. For 10 points,
name this instrument played by artists such as Jimmy Dorsey and Benny Goodman.
ANSWER: clarinet
032-09-3-02120

5. This author’s political pamphlets, including The Shortest Way with the Dissenters, landed him in Newgate
in 1702. One of his characters so annoys a ship with preaching that he is put ashore in China. Another of this
author's protagonists was based on Alexander Selkirk and is assisted by Friday. For 10 points, name this
Englishman who wrote Moll Flanders, A Journal of the Plague Year, and a tale of a man deserted on an
island, Robinson Crusoe.
ANSWER: Daniel Defoe [or Daniel Foe]
062-09-3-02121

6. The mansion of John Neville was burned down during this event. The "Watermelon Army" called to put it
down was led by "Light Horse Harry" Lee and, for the last time in American history, the sitting President.
The cause of this insurrection was a scheme to gain more money for the government devised by Alexander
Hamilton. For 10 points, name this rebellion centered in western Pennsylvania, which arose against an
excise tax on the namesake liquor.
ANSWER: Whiskey Rebellion
023-09-3-02122
VHSL Districts Round 2 Page 6 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

7. This man conceived of a creature that could open a trap door through which only fast-moving particles
could enter; that creature, supposedly contradicting the Second Law of Thermodynamics, is his "demon."
Oliver Heaviside formulated the current form of his most famous work; his main contribution to that work
was the addition of a displacement current to Ampere's Law. For 10 points, name this Scottish physicist who
derived four namesake equations that describe electromagnetism.
ANSWER: James Clerk Maxwell
001-09-3-02123

8. In one TV show, this character's ability to communicate with sea monsters aids in the arrest of Nute
Gunray (noot GUN-ray). Joe Morgenstern of The Wall Street Journal called this character a "Rastafarian
Stepin Fetchit on platform hoofs, crossed annoyingly with Butterfly McQueen." He reveals that he has been
banished for clumsiness after Qui-Gon Jinn frees him from Boss Nass on Naboo. For 10 points, name this
widely panned computer-generated Gungan who travels with Jedi Knights in Star Wars: The Phantom
Menace.
ANSWER: Jar Jar Binks
045-09-3-02124

9. This man's son Alexis was tortured to death due to allegations of treason. In 1696, this ruler captured
Azov from the Ottoman Empire. He traveled incognito on a European tour from 1697 to 1698 in an attempt
to learn how to modernize his country. He was the victor at Poltava and fought Charles XII of Sweden in the
Great Northern War. For 10 points, name this tsar who moved the capital of Russia from Moscow to his
namesake city.
ANSWER: Peter I [or Peter the Great; or Pyotr Veliky; prompt on Peter]
030-09-3-02125

10. One of these creatures was a ferryman who was slain by Heracles after trying to rape the hero's wife, but
got his revenge when his poisonous blood burned the hero to death. The wisest of them was an immortal
master of medicine and tutored such heroes as Jason and Achilles (uh-KILL-ees). Nessus and Chiron
(KY-ron) were members of this race, who were known for their savage wars with the Lapiths. For 10 points,
name these creatures from Greek mythology, who were half-men, half-horses.
ANSWER: Centaurs [or Kentauroi]
052-09-3-02126

11. One character in this work saves the life of Ogier (OH-zheer) the Dane. One group in this work is
betrayed by the evil Ganelon. That betrayal in this work leads to the ambushing of Archbishop Turpin and
Oliver by Saracens at Roncesvalles (RON-seh-valz) Pass. The title character blows his "olifant" horn so hard
that his temples burst open, and he dies calling for Charlemagne to avenge his death. For 10 points, name
this French epic poem.
ANSWER: The Song of Roland [or La Chanson de Roland]
045-09-3-02127

12. This figure created the tides when he was tricked into trying to drink the entire ocean. In one story, he
dressed up as the goddess of love in order to retrieve a possession stolen by Thrym. This god's chariot was
pulled by two goats, and his weapon required a belt and gloves to wield. At Ragnarok, he will kill and be
killed by Jörmungandr (YOR-mung-ahnd-er), or the Midgard Serpent. This wielder of the hammer Mjollnir
(ME-oll-neer) is, for 10 points, what Norse god of thunder?
ANSWER: Thor
026-09-3-02128

VHSL Districts Round 2 Page 7 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

13. One phase of this battle was Operation Stosser, a failed paratrooper attack on the Baraque Michel
Crossroads. An offensive by the 1st SS Panser Division resulted in the Malmedy Massacre during this event.
The sieges of St. Vith and Bastonne occurred during it. In Bastonne that Anthony McAuliffe responded to a
demand for surrender during this battle with the one-word reply "Nuts!" For 10 points, the Germans failed to
reach the Meuse River in which 1944 offensive, named for the indentation that was created in the Allied
line?
ANSWER: Battle of the Bulge
040-09-3-02129

14. This element is incorporated into glutamine ("GLUE"-tuh-"mean") and glutamite ("GLUE"-tuh-"might")
in a process known as assimilation of this element. The presence of this element in fertilizer causes "dead
zones" in polluted water. Legumes ("LAY"-gyumez) convert this element into more biologically usable form
in a process known as this element's "fixation." For 10 points, name this element whose diatomic
("DIE"-uh-tom-ick) form is an inert gas that makes up about seventy-eight percent of the atmosphere.
ANSWER: nitrogen [or N]
021-09-3-02130

15. A character named Oswald responds to this story by telling of a man named Symkyn (SIM-kin) who is
cuckolded by a pair of Cambridge students. John the carpenter suspends himself from the ceiling in a
bathtub after another character convinces him a flood is imminent. In this story, Nicholas scorches the
backside of the clerk Absolon after seducing Allison, the wife of John. For 10 points, name this vulgar
second story from The Canterbury Tales.
ANSWER: "The Miller's Tale"
045-09-3-02131

VHSL Districts Round 2 Page 8 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Districts
Round 2
Tiebreaker Questions
1. These compounds are called "killed," "semikilled," "capped," or "rimmed" depending on the degree of
oxidation. One type of these compounds can be divided into austenitic (OS-ten-it-ick), ferritic (fer-RIT-ick),
or martensitic (MAR-ten-zit-ick) types depending on the chromium and nickel content. Inexpensive
production of these compounds was first obtained by using an air blast to remove impurities; that process
was named after Henry Bessemer. For 10 points, name these metals that are produced by adding elements to
pig iron.
ANSWER: steels
003-09-3-02132

2. This religious figure was rebuked by Paul for his prejudice against Gentile Christians in the Incident at
Antioch (ann-tee-OCK). This brother of Andrew cut off the ear of Malchus during Jesus's arrest, and this
saint refused to be crucified in the same manner as Christ. This individual denied Jesus three times after the
Crucifixion, though he had been told that he would be the rock upon which the Church would be built. For
10 points, name this Apostle of Jesus considered to be the founder of the Catholic Church and holder of the
keys of Heaven.
ANSWER: Saint Peter [or Petros; or Cephas]
059-09-3-02133

3. This phenomenon causes a disorder observed in Erasmus Bartholin and originally thought to have been
caused by atomic bomb testing, Patau Syndrome. Another disorder caused by one of these leads to
hypogonadism and reduced fertility and is named after Kleinfelter. The Simian crease, an unusually round
face, and impairment of cognitive ability are signs of Down Syndrome, which is caused by one of them at
chromosome 21. For 10 points, name this type of aneuploidy in which there are three copies of a
chromosome.
ANSWER: trisomy [prompt on aneuploidy before it is read]
040-09-3-02134

4. The protagonist of one of this author’s works decides not to blackmail Bertha in order to protect
Lawrence Selden. Another character created by this author remains faithful to May Welland even though he
loves May's Polish cousin. This author created Lily Bart in the novel The House of Mirth and Newland
Archer in The Age of Innocence. She also created a character who loves Mattie Silver and tries to commit
suicide by sledding into an elm tree. For 10 points, name this American author of Ethan Frome.
ANSWER: Edith Newbold Jones Wharton
024-09-3-02135

5. This term was used to describe Brand Whitlock, who argued against the death penalty. It was also used to
describe two separate people who chronicled the history of Standard Oil, Henry Lloyd and Ida Tarbell. This
word was popularized by Teddy Roosevelt, who commented on such writers' similarities to a character from
The Pilgrim's Progress. For 10 points, give this term used to describe late-nineteenth and early-twentieth
century writers who used novels and articles to expose corruption and poor social conditions.
ANSWER: muckrakers [prompt on progressives before "Pilgrim's Progress" is read]
003-09-3-02136

VHSL Districts Round 2 Page 9 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

