VHSL Districts
Round 7
First Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. One actor with this surname claimed Tosca was a plagiarization of his play Nadjezda (na-JEZ-da) and
married Georgianne Drew. In addition to nineteenth century stage actor Maurice, and the portrayer of Mr.
Potter in It's a Wonderful Life, Lionel, an actress with this surname starred with Cameron Diaz and Lucy Liu
in Charlie's Angels. That actress with this surname also played the female leads in The Wedding Singer and
50 First Dates. For 10 points, name this theatrical family whose youngest member made her acting debut in
the film E.T and is named Drew.
ANSWER: Barrymore
045-09-3-07101

2. One character in this novel dreams about a pious discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabez Branderham.
The main male character starves himself to death after learning that Cathy plans on marrying Hareton.
Hareton does not inherit his father Hindley’s estate at the this novel's title location. This novel opens with
Mr. Lockwood's arrival at Thrushcross Grange, and was published under the pseudonym "Ellis Bell." For 10
points, name this work about Catherine Earnshaw and Heathcliff, the only novel by Emily Brontë.
ANSWER: Wuthering Heights
024-09-3-07102

3. A 2002 study by Lonnie Thompson suggested that the Furtwängler (firt-VAIN-glur) Glacier, located on
this structure, will disappear by 2015. The northern route of this location features the Rongai gate, while the
Lemosho route leads to the Shira plateau. Mount Meru lies to the west of this mountain. In 1889, Hans
Meyer ascended Kibo, the highest of this mountain’s three peaks. For 10 points, name this mountain that is
known as "Uhuru" in Swahili and is the tallest mountain in Africa.
ANSWER: Mount Kilimanjaro
060-09-3-07103

4. This man announced that his country would "let a hundred flowers bloom" during a brief relaxation of
censorship. This man’s wife Jiang Qing (jang ching) was part of the radical Gang of Four. He supported the
Red Guard's efforts to remove Western influence in the Cultural Revolution. This participant in the Long
March supported the Great Leap Forward and took control of his nation after forcing Chiang Kai-shek
(CHANG kai-SHEK) to flee to Taiwan. For 10 points, name this "Chairman" of the People's Republic of
China.
ANSWER: Mao Zedong [or Mao Tse-Tung]
027-09-3-07104

5. The disparate organizations that today represent this denomination are organized into large Yearly
Meetings, which issue this denomination's Books of Discipline. One concept unique to this denomination
suggests that God's presence is signified by an "inner light." This denomination's Peace Testimony causes its
members to oppose warfare. George Fox founded this denomination, for which William Penn founded
Pennsylvania as a safe haven. For 10 points, name this denomination also known as the Religious Society of
Friends.
ANSWER: Quakers [or the Religious Society of Friends prior to mention]
004-09-3-07105

VHSL Districts Round 7 Page 1 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. The namesake coefficient of this process is given by the Einstein relation, and this phenomenon is
described by Fick's Laws. In cells this process can be facilitated, active, or passive. It can be viewed as a
consequence of the Brownian motion of many particles. When this concept is applied to water across a
membrane, it is called osmosis. For 10 points, name this process through which particles move from high to
low concentrations.
ANSWER: diffusion
001-09-3-07106

7. This man made use of an inverted telescope to size the proportions of his hometown, which he depicted in
a painting of buildings on the river Schie (SHE). This artist of Girl Interrupted at Her Music depicted his
own backside as he sits down to paint in his work The Art of Painting. He showed a woman looking over her
left shoulder, wearing a blue headdress while a piece of white jewelry hangs from her ear. For 10 points,
name this Dutch artist who painted View of Delft and Girl with a Pearl Earring.
ANSWER: Jan Vermeer [or Johannes Vermeer]
024-09-3-07107

8. One poet from this country wrote the line "A black, E white, I red, U green, O blue" in his "Sonnet of the
Vowels." A medieval poet from this country asked "where are the snows of yesteryear?" One of this
country's most-read poets collected the poems "Benediction" and "The Albatross" in a volume divided into
such sections as "Wine" and "Spleen and Ideal." For 10 points, name this country whose poetic tradition
includes Paul Verlaine, Arthur Rimbaud (rem-BO), and the author of The Flowers of Evil, Charles
Baudelaire.
ANSWER: France [or French Republic; or Republique Francaise]
019-09-3-07108

9. A politician in this state, Solomon Sharp, was assassinated by romantic rival Jereboam Beauchamp in one
of the biggest scandals of the 1820s, this state's namesake "tragedy." Shortly thereafter, a man from this state
became Secretary of State due to an alleged "corrupt bargain." This site of the Civil War battles of Perryville
and Mill Springs was the birthplace of both Jefferson Davis and Abraham Lincoln. For 10 points, identify
this home state of Henry Clay, where the Wilderness Road was built by Daniel Boone.
ANSWER: Kentucky
030-09-3-07109

10. Operations in them include unicasting, multicasting, and broadcasting. Topologies for them include star,
tree, and mesh. Protocols used with these include ARP, ICMP, and UDP. One can create a virtual private
one of these inside an existing one. They often include switches, hubs, or routers, and ways to create them
include ethernet and Wi-Fi. For 10 points, name this term for a group of interconnected computers.
ANSWER: computer network
001-09-3-07110

11. While serving as a mercenary in the Netherlands, this man was recruited by Robert Catesby. His efforts
were thwarted by Francis Tresham, who warned Lord Monteagle to stay home. This man is burned in effigy
on "bonfire night" in England each November 5. His goal was to restore Catholicism to England by by
blowing up Parliament while King James I and the entire Protestant nobility were inside. For 10 points,
name this chief executor of the Gunpowder Plot.
ANSWER: Guy Fawkes
045-09-3-07111

VHSL Districts Round 7 Page 2 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

12. One of these events occurred during the Late Devonian (duh-VO-nee-un) Period, and other notable
events of this type include the Ordovician-Silurian (or-doe-VISH-ee-un sill-UR-ee-un), Permian-Triassic
and End Triassic. The best known of these events occurred at the end of the Cretaceous Period and was
likely caused by by an asteroid's impact. For 10 points, name these events in which all living members of
multiple species were wiped out.
ANSWER: mass extinctions
063-09-3-07112

13. This man founded a congress in Natal to fight discrimination while serving as a lawyer in South Africa.
This man was followed from Sabarmati (sah-bar-MAH-tee) to Dandi in a march protesting a British tax on
salt. That protest followed his philosophy of passive resistance called satyagraha (SAHT-ee-uh-grah-ha).
This man was assassinated by Nathuram Godse (NAH-too-rahm GAWD-say) while on his way to pray. For
10 points, name this leader of the independence movement that eventually led to the creation of Pakistan and
India.
ANSWER: Mahatma Gandhi [or Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi]
023-09-3-07113

14. This organ includes the fornix (FOR-nix) and mammillary (MAM-uh-LAIR-ee) region in the
hypothalamus (HIGH-po-THAL-uh-mus). The amygdala (uh-MIG-duh-luh) is part of this organ's limbic
system. The pons connects the medulla oblongata (meh-DOO-luh obb-lon-GOT-uh) to the rest of this organ.
In humans, the largest part of this organ is the cerebral cortex. For 10 points, name this organ housed inside
the cranium that controls the nervous system.
ANSWER: brain
063-09-3-07114

15. Johnson's men attacked a Union line near Culp's Hill in this battle. One major rout in this battle came
when flanking fire caused a brigade led by Brockenbrough to flee through Trimble's position and both
brigades fled to Seminary Ridge. A major turning point in this battle was an assault on the Union position at
Cemetery Ridge, which James Longstreet predicted would go badly. For 10 points, name this battle that
included Pickett's Charge and saw a major Union victory on July 3, 1863, followed by an "address" from
Abraham Lincoln.
ANSWER: Battle of Gettysburg
022-09-3-07115

VHSL Districts Round 7 Page 3 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Districts
Round 7
Directed Round
1A. What inventor, who was working for Nathanael Greene’s wife when he invented the cotton gin,
popularized the concept of interchangeable parts?
ANSWER: Eli Whitney, Jr.
1B. The real estate boom at this Middle Eastern city, home to the world’s tallest man-made structure,
abruptly ended as a financial crisis surfaced. Name this emirate (EM-uh-ret) whose state corporation
announced recently that is is unable to meet its interest bills.
ANSWER: Dubai
2A. Give the German word that is used in English as a literary term referring to coming-of-age novels, such
as Great Expectations and Siddhartha.
ANSWER: bildungsroman (BILL-dungs-row-MON)
2B. A "kinked demand curve" is characteristic of what market structure, in which a small number of firms,
but more than one firm, dominates the market?
ANSWER: oligopoly
3A. What metamorphic rock, often used in architecture and sculptures, is derived from limestone and
dolomite?
ANSWER: marble
3B. Name the architectural complex, commissioned by Pericles, that includes the Propylaia
(PRO-peh-LAY-uh) gate and the temple to Athena known as the Parthenon.
ANSWER: Acropolis of Athens
4A. This is a 10-second calculation question. Divide three eighths by one sixteenth.
ANSWER: 6
4B.This is a 10-second calculation question. What is the circumference of a circle whose area is 81 pi?
ANSWER: 18 pi [or 56.54]
5A. Identify the principle, that applies to all fermions, and states that no two electrons can have the same
quantum numbers.
ANSWER: Pauli exclusion principle [prompt on partial answer]
5B. The Spanish word "embarazada" (em-BAH-ruh-SAH-dah) is a false cognate, because it signifies not
being embarrassed, but being what?
ANSWER: pregnant [accept pregnancy or other word forms; accept anything that conveys the meaning of
being pregnant]

VHSL Districts Round 7 Page 4 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6A. This is a 20-second calculation question. If the sum of interior angles of a polygon is 1260 degrees, how
many sides does it have?
ANSWER: 9
6B.This is a 20-second calculation question. If the probability of a kitten being male is 50% and the
probability of being female is 50%, what is the probability that a litter of 6 kittens having at least one male
kitten?
ANSWER: 63/64 [or 98.4375%]
7A. James Agee wrote a screenplay based on a C.S. Forester novel for what 1951 film, which stars
Katherine Hepburn as a missionary's sister and Humphrey Bogart as the captain of the title steamboat hired
to attack the Germans during World War I?
ANSWER: The African Queen
7B. What lymphocytes mediate humoral immune response by producing antibodies?
ANSWER: B-cells
8A. What second-most-populous British city, located in the West Midlands, led Britain in manufacturing
during the Industrial Revolution?
ANSWER: Birmingham
8B. Arnold Schwarzenegger was accused of making obscene use of what poetic form, in which the first
letters of each line form a name or a message?
ANSWER: acrostic
9A.This is a 30-second calculation question. What is 1772 minus 232?
ANSWER: 30,800
9B.This is a 30-second calculation question. Find the greatest common factor of 168 and 98.
ANSWER: 14
10A. What type of rhyme involves two or more sounds, as in "turtle" and "fertile?"
ANSWER: feminine rhyme
10B. Identify the national soccer team, led by Pim Verbeek (vur-BEEK), that is in group D of 2010 World
Cup along with Germany, Serbia, and Ghana, and has such stars as Tim Cahill and Harry Kewell.
ANSWER: Australia

VHSL Districts Round 7 Page 5 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Districts
Round 7
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. In one novel by this man, the orphan Esther Summerson is raised by one of the parties in the lawsuit
Jarndyce v. Jarndyce. Another work by him is about the husband of Agnes Wickfield. In that novel by this
man, Uriah Heep hires Micawber at a law firm. This author of Bleak House created a character who revisits
his job with Fezziwig after Jacob Marley’s ghost, bound in chains, haunts him. For 10 points, name this
author of David Copperfield who created Ebenezer Scrooge in A Christmas Carol.
ANSWER: Charles John Huffam Dickens
027-09-3-07117

2. The minimum total distance from a point to all the vertices of one of these objects is the Fermat point.
Ceva's theorem describes the condition in which lines from all of the vertices of these objects intersect at a
single point. In Euclidean geometry, the sum of the angles of one of these objects is pi radians. The area of
these objects can be found using Heron's formula, as well as the formula one half base times eight. For 10
points, name these shapes divided into scalene, isoceles, and equilateral types.
ANSWER: triangles
004-09-3-07118

3. One author from this country wrote Concerning Famous Men. Another native of this country wrote of life
in Auschwitz in If This is a Man. This country was also home to a man who wrote of his "vital spirit"
trembling before his love in The New Life and a work in which the protagonist is led through the city of Dis
by Virgil. For 10 points, name this home country of Primo Levi, as well as Petrach and the author of Inferno,
Dante.
ANSWER: Italy [or Italian Republic; or Repubblica Italiana]
060-09-3-07119

4. This composer wrote the "Scarbo" movement in a solo piano work. This man wrote the dance suite The
Tomb of Couperin (COO-puh-rin) and Gaspard de la Nuit (GOS-pard day la NOO-ey). He also created the
most widely played orchestration of Mussorgsky's Pictures at an Exhibition and wrote Pavane For A Dead
Princess. This man wrote a Spanish dance with a theme that begins in the flutes and is repeated in all
sections of the orchestra. For 10 points, name this French composer of the repetitive Bolero.
ANSWER: Maurice Ravel [or Joseph-Maurice Ravel]
026-09-3-07120

5. The static form of this force typically has a coefficient larger than the coefficient of the kinetic form of
this force. Those coefficients are represented by the Greek letter mu (MEW). The kinetic coefficient is found
by taking the value of this force over the value of the normal force. This force works perpendicular to
gravity and the normal force and in opposition to an applied force. For 10 points, name this force that occurs
between two objects moving against one another, which causes objects to slow down as they move over a
rough surface.
ANSWER: friction force
023-09-3-07121

6. This ruler was the first to call himself the "King of England", as opposed to the "King of the English." His
query "will no one rid me of this troublesome priest" inspired his knights to murder the Archbishop of
Canterbury, Thomas a Becket. He married the ex-wife of French King Louis VII, Eleanor, in order to inherit
Aquitaine. For 10 points, name this great-grandson of William the Conqueror who ruled from 1153 to 1189
as the first monarch of the House of Plantagenet.
ANSWER: Henry II [prompt on Henry]
045-09-3-07122
VHSL Districts Round 7 Page 6 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

7. Towards the end of this work, the speaker becomes again "an overstaid fraction." Section Six of this work
compares grass to "the handkerchief of the Lord." Early in this poem, the speaker declares himself "one of
the roughs, a cosmos." The final section of this poem asks the reader to "look for me under your bootsoles"
and declares "I sound my barbaric yawp over the roofs of the world." For 10 points, name this centerpiece of
Leaves of Grass by Walt Whitman, which begins "I celebrate myself."
ANSWER: "Song of Myself"
060-09-3-07123

8. Flysch (FLISH) and molasse are terms for cycles of this type of material, found in deep-water and
shallow-water facies (FAY-sees), respectively. These materials can be characterized by lamination. Coquina
(coe-KEE-nuh) is an example of this class of material made up entirely of shell fragments. These materials
are classified as clastic, organic, or chemical. This is the only class of rock that can contain fossils, and
common examples include shale, limestone, and sandstone. For 10 points, identify this type of rock, made
up of layers of gradually-deposited particles.
ANSWER: sedimentary rocks [prompt on rocks]
029-09-3-07124

9. During this President's time in office, Zebulon Pike explored the American southwest. This man refused
to listen to his Treasury Secretary, Albert Gallatin, who advised this man not to sign the Embargo Act. This
President also sent the Corps of Discovery to Oregon; that expedition, led by Lewis and Clark, explored the
lands that this man acquired in the Louisiana Purchase. For 10 points, name this writer of the Declaration of
Independence, who became the third President after winning the election of 1800 over John Adams.
ANSWER: Thomas Jefferson
023-09-3-07125

10. One tradition associated with this holiday involves throwing pieces of bread into flowing water. This
holiday includes the recitation of poems called piyuttim (pee-YOO-teem). This holiday is celebrated on the
first and second of Tishrei. Like the Day of Atonement that occurs ten days after it, this holiday includes the
blowing of the shofar (SHOW-far). Eating round, sweet bread and apples dipped in honey are other
traditions of this holiday. For 10 points, name this holiday, the Jewish New Year.
ANSWER: Rosh Hashanah
032-09-3-07126

11. In a short story by this man, the gangsters Al and Max go into a diner looking for Ole Andreson. In a
novel by this writer of "The Killers," Robert Cohn has an affair with Lady Brett Ashley. Another of his
novels describes the World War I retreat from Caporetto. Frederick Henry impregnates the nurse Catherine
Barkley in that book by this author, who also wrote about Santiago catching a marlin in Cuba. For 10 points,
name this writer of The Sun Also Rises, A Farewell to Arms, and The Old Man and the Sea.
ANSWER: Ernest Miller Hemingway
027-09-3-07127

12. One member of this group had a brother who married Pandora, and another was the mother of the muses,
Mnemosyne (neh-MAH-zuh-nee). The leader of this group used a diamond sickle to castrate his father and
take power before swallowing his five children. The Hecatonchires (heck-uh-TAHN-keer-ayz) and Cyclopes
(SIGH-klah-peez) helped to overthrow this group that was led by Cronos. For 10 points, name this race of
Greek gods who were overthrown by Zeus and the Olympians, and whose name now refers to something
large or powerful.
ANSWER: Titans
019-09-3-07128

VHSL Districts Round 7 Page 7 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

13. This country fought the War of the Oranges with its eastern neighbor. In 1961, India forcibly annexed
this country's colony of Goa, but it held on to its African colonies until the Carnation Revolution. This
nation saw the formation of the Estado Novo under the rule of Antonio Salazar, and had earlier been rocked
by a 1755 earthquake in its capital. For 10 points, name this country which colonized Angola and
Mozambique and was the home of Henry the Navigator and Vasco de Gama.
ANSWER: Portugal [or Portuguese Republic; or Republica Portuguesa]
060-09-3-07129

14. In the second act of this ballet, the main characters are entertained by the "Dance of the Reed Flutes." A
suite named for this ballet includes the Spanish, Arabian, and Chinese dances and the "Waltz of the
Flowers." This ballet incorporated the celesta for its "Dance of the Sugar Plum Fairy." During this ballet, the
Mouse King is defeated by the title object, which is given to Clara on Christmas Eve by Herr Droselmayr.
(Dross-el-me-yer) For 10 points, name this ballet about a soldier toy, by Tchaikovsky.
ANSWER: The Nutcracker [or Shchelkunchik]
004-09-3-07130

15. In one novel by this man, the Jew Abraham Zogoiby (zuh-GOY-bee) traces his ancestry back to the last
Muslim ruler of Granada. Another novel by this author of The Moor’s Last Sigh includes a mass sterilization
that takes place during Indira Gandhi’s rule and is about the first child born in an independent India, the
psychic Saleem Sinai. One novel by this man opens with Saladin Chamcha (CHAHM-chuh) and Gibreel
Farishta (fuh-REESH-tuh) falling out of a hijacked plane. For 10 points, name this author of Midnight’s
Children and The Satanic Verses.
ANSWER: Ahmed Salman Rushdie
027-09-3-07131

VHSL Districts Round 7 Page 8 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL Districts
Round 7
Tiebreaker Questions
1. For reversible isobaric processes, the molar version of this quantity is equal to the molar heat capacity
times the natural log of the ratio of final to initial temperatures. By Trouton's Rule, its molar version for
vaporization processes is approximately eighty-eight Joules per mole Kelvin. It is equal to Boltzmann's
constant times the natural log of the number of microstates according to a formula written on Boltzmann's
tombstone. For 10 points, name this measure of disorder of a system, symbolized S.
ANSWER: entropy [prompt on early S]
003-09-3-07132

2. Mark Twain wrote an essay on the "literary offenses" of this creator of Chingachgook
(ching-GOCH-guk), who is the father of one of this author's title characters, Uncas. The Pioneers, The
Prairie, and The Deerslayer are among the works he wrote about a character variously known as "the
trapper" and "Hawkeye." For 10 points, name this American author who wrote about Natty Bumppo in the
Leatherstocking Tales, which includes his The Last of the Mohicans.
ANSWER: James Fenimore Cooper
024-09-3-07133

3. This term was first coined by Cora Dubois and further elucidated in a 1954 lecture given by Kalervo
Oberg. Oberg noted that symptoms of this malady include the "tropical stare," "excessive concern over
drinking water," and a "terrible longing to be back home." Oberg further noted that in this condition, "the
environment has not changed. What has changed is [one's] attitude towards it." For 10 points, give this term
referring to the disorientation and eventual disgust one feels upon having to live in a new human
environment.
ANSWER: culture shock
003-09-3-07134

4. One type of these creatures, Danio rerio (DAH-nee-oh RAY-ree-oh), is an important model organism.
These creatures use counter current circulation and a lateral line sensory system. One class of them includes
the "lung" type and the once-believed-to-be-extinct Coelacanth (SEE-luh-kanth). Common types of these
organisms are divided into classes Osteichthyes (OSS-tee-ICK-thees) and Chondrichthyes
(KON-DRICK-thees) based on the presence of a bone or cartilage skeleton. For 10 points, name these
aquatic verbrates, examples of which include koi and sharks.
ANSWER: fish
001-09-3-07135

5. In one of this man's operas, the "liebestod" occurs after Queen Mark's wife falls in love with an Arthurian
knight. This composer wrote an opera where Senta falls in love with a ghostly ship captain cursed to roam
the seas, entitled The Flying Dutchman. This man wrote a four-opera cycle about magical jewelry forged by
a dwarf, which also features the heroic Siegfried and the valkyrie [valk-REE] Brünnhilde. For 10 points,
name this German composer of the cycle called The Ring of the Nibelungs. [NEE-buh-lungs]
ANSWER: Richard Wagner [VAG-ner]
052-09-3-07136

VHSL Districts Round 7 Page 9 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

