VHSL States
Round 5
First Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. One ancient culture from this present-day country is the Nok culture, which existed in what is now the Jos
Plateau. The second-largest city in this country is Kano. The southwest corner of Lake Chad is part of this
country, which is bordered by Benin to the west and Cameroon to the east. It is home to the Ibo [EE-bow],
who formed the breakaway Republic of Biafra in 1967. In 1991, its capital was moved to Abuja
[ah-BOO-dja]. For 10 points, name this most populous country in Africa, whose largest city is Lagos.
ANSWER: Federal Republic of Nigeria
024-09-9-05101

2. Though it is not the kidneys, the tissue surrounding arteries in this organ is called a Malpighian
(mal-PEE-gee-uhn) body. One type of tissue in this organ is made up of Cords of Billroth. Along with the
liver and bone marrow, the body stores ferritin (FAIR-it-in) bound iron in this organ. The two main types of
tissue in this organ meet at the "marginal zone." Along with the thymus, this part of the lymphatic system is
the only organ that contains efferent lymphatic vessels. This organ is made up of red pulp and white pulp.
For 10 points, name this organ that removes old red blood cells from the blood.
ANSWER: spleen
026-09-9-05102

3. This composer dedicated his first symphony to Nikolai Rubenstein. His only unnumbered symphony was
inspired by the Russian premiere of Berlioz's Harold in Italy and is named for Lord Byron's poem Manfred.
His last symphony contains a "limping waltz" in 5/4 time. This composer of the Pathetique symphony wrote
a piece to commemorate a victory over Napoleon, which calls for cannons to be shot. One of his other works
includes the "Dance of the Sugar Plum Fairy." For 10 points, name this Russian composer who wrote the
1812 Overture and the Nutcracker ballet.
ANSWER: Peter Ilich Tchaikovsky [accept Pyotr Ilych Tchaikovsky]
026-09-9-05103

4. One faction of this political party was led by Jaime [HI-may] Wheelock. Another faction of this group
organized a group of professionals and clergymen known as "the Twelve." This Carlos Fonseca-founded
party includes the tercerista faction, which took 1000 hostages during a September insurrection on Leon and
Matagalpa. One faction of this party was led by future president Daniel Ortega, who was instrumental in the
overthrow of the Somoza regime. The Contra death squads opposed this party. For 10 points, name this
socialist party that ruled Nicaragua.
ANSWER: Sandinista National Liberation Front [or Frente Sandinista de Liberaci]
020-09-9-05104

5. Early development of some of these cells are guided by netrin (NET-rin) and semaphorin
(SEM-uh-FOR-in) proteins. Historically, reticular (RET-ick-YU-lar) theory contrasted with these cells'
namesake doctrine. Examples of these cells include pyramidal cells and Purkinje (pur-KIN-jee) cells. The
cell body of one of these cells is known as the soma, and a "hillock" in these cells generates an action
potential, which is propagated down the axon. For 10 points, name these cells of the nervous system.
ANSWER: neurons
001-09-9-05105

VHSL States Round 5 Page 1 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. Among this program's achievements were oral histories of slave life and the Astronomers Monument
outside Griffith Observatory. This program's activity peaked during the fall of election years; its
congressional opponents argued that its beneficiaries were selected for politics instead of need. Over its eight
years of existence, this program worked on 1.4 million projects and employed over 8.5 million people. For
10 points, name this Depression era initiative that employed the jobless as artists, writers, and builders of
national infrastructure.
ANSWER: the WPA [or Works Progress Administration; or Work Projects Administration]
062-09-9-05106

7. This figure creates an altar on Mount Ebal and carves the Ten Commandments into it. He is one of twelve
spies sent to scout the land, but only he and Caleb gave a positive report. Two of this man's spies are saved
by the prostitute Rahab. This figure prays for the sun and the moon to stop in their tracks during a battle with
the Amorites. As Moses' successor, he leads the Israelites in conquering Canaan. For 10 points, name this
Old Testament leader whose most famous military victory was against the city of Jericho, which fell after
the Israelites circled its seven times.
ANSWER: Joshua
045-09-9-05107

8. The main character of this novel is scolded by his uncle Karl for flirting with Leni, a woman with webbed
fingers. In this novel, Frau Grubach is the main character’s landlady and cannot help his plight. At one point
in this work, the main character observes Franz and Willem being whipped. Franz and Willem had earlier
arrested the main character of this work. For 10 points, name this work about Joseph K.’s condemnation by
the title judicial proceeding, a work by Franz Kafka.
ANSWER: The Trial [or Der Prozess]
030-09-9-05108

9. This artist pioneered a style that was used by another man to to paint the the Portrait of Felix Feneon. A
boy in swimming trunks sits on top of his clothes while looking into a river in this man's depiction of the
Bathers at Asnieres. A woman with a parasol holding a monkey on a leash is one figure in a riverside scene
in one of this man's paintings, which uses tiny dots of color to depict its images. For 10 points, name this
French artist of Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte, the founder of pointillism.
ANSWER: Georges Seurat
030-09-9-05109

10. One formulation of this value uses Slater's rules to find a effective nuclear charge, which is then divided
by the covalent radius. The Allred-Rochow (ROSH-ow) formulation of it does not account for the d-block
elements. Allen suggested that this value is related to the average energy of a certain particle, and Mulliken
defined it as the mean of first ionization energy and electron affinity. Fluorine possesses the highest value
for, for 10 points, what quantity proposed by Pauling as a measure of an atom's ability to attract electrons to
itself?
ANSWER: electronegativity
020-09-9-05110

11. This ecumenical council moved to Bologna under Pope Paul III. It reaffirmed the holiness of
indulgences. The third phase of this meeting recommended that church music be intelligible and free of
secular expression, drew up a list of banned books, and clarified Catholic doctrine. For 10 points, name the
council begun in 1545, and held over the course of two decades, that denounced Protestants and sparked the
Catholic Counter-Reformation.
ANSWER: Council of Trent
063-09-9-05111

VHSL States Round 5 Page 2 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

12. This author wrote about the aftermath of Beale and Ida Farange's divorce in one novel. This author who
adapted Maupassant's [mow-pass-AH] "The Necklace" into his short story "Paste" also wrote a novel in
which Miles and Flora are haunted by ghosts named Peter Quint and Miss Jessel. This author of What
Maisie Knew also wrote The Golden Bowl and The Turn of the Screw. For 10 points, name this American
author who wrote about Catherine Sloper in Washington Square and Isabel Archer in The Portrait of a Lady.
ANSWER: Henry James
024-09-9-05112

13. One member of this family was the first American Jesuit ever to be appointed a cardinal. Another
member of this family was kidded for his “pactomania,” which referred to his fondness for signing treaties.
That member of this family wrote the book War or Peace criticizing containment policy. Yet another
member of this family planned Operations Ajax and PBSUCCESS to cause coups in Iran and Guatemala.
For 10 points, name this family, which notably featured as members Eisenhower’s CIA director and
Secretary of State, Allen and John Foster.
ANSWER: Dulles (DUL-ess)
052-09-9-05113

14. These devices are typically used in traffic light sensors, and their impedance is proportional to angular
frequency. Like resistors, when these devices are arranged in series or in parallel their strength is combined.
The energy stored by these devices is proportional to one half times the current squared. The L in RLC
circuits refers to these devices. These devices, which include solenoids and toroids, are represented in circuit
diagrams by a coil. For 10 points, name these electrical devices that can store energy in a magnetic field.
ANSWER: inductors
064-09-9-05114

15. The final version of this album cut out the song "If You've Got Trouble," which was replaced by a song
in which the singer muses "they're gonna put me in the movies." The title track of this album bemoans that
the singer's independence has "vanished in the haze" and that the singer finds that he "need[s] you like [he's]
never done before." "Ticket to Ride" and "You've Got to Hide Your Love Away" appear on this album,
whose title word begins phrases that end "I need somebody," and "not just anybody." For 10 points, name
this Beatles album, which shares its name with a Beatles movie and is titled for a song in which assistance is
requested.
ANSWER: Help!
032-09-9-05115

VHSL States Round 5 Page 3 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL States
Round 5
Directed Round
1A. Pharrell Williams and Chad Hugo comprise what Virginia Beach-based due of music producers, which
has worked on such hits as "Hot in Herre" by Nelly and "Rock Your Body" by Justin Timberlake?
ANSWER: The Neptunes [do not accept "N.E.R.D.", which has additional members and is a performance,
not production, group]
1B. He originated the role of evil propane salesman M. F. Thatherton on King of the Hill and was
impersonated by Norm MacDonald on Saturday Night Live's "Celebrity Jeopardy." Identify this actor, whose
driving comedies include the Smokey and the Bandit and Cannonball Run series.
ANSWER: Burton Leon "Burt" Reynolds, Jr.
2A. Huesler (HOYS-ler) alloys, iron, and cobalt are among the materials that demonstrate what property
below the Curie point?
ANSWER: ferromagnetism [prompt on magnetism]
2B. This Barcelona structure is the chief emblem of the Renaixensa (REH-nuh-SEN-suh), an anti-Madrid
revival of Catalan culture. Identify this unique cathedral, designed by Antoni Gaudí (AN-tow-nee
gow-DEE), which is still being built despite starting construction in 1883.
ANSWER: Temple Expiatori de la Sagrada Família [or Expiatory Temple of the Holy Family; or Templo
Expiatorio de la Sagrada Familia; or Church of the Holy Family]
3A. The Mormon Trail and the Oregon Trail each took advantage of the river valley formed by what
Nebraska waterway, which has North and South branches and is a large tributary of the Missouri?
ANSWER: Platte River
3B. Philip Zimbardo was one of the chief researchers who conducted what 1971 study about the influence of
roles on behavior, which was ended when those assigned as "guards" began abusing the "inmates"?
ANSWER: Stanford Prison Experiment [prompt on partial answer]
4A. This is a 10-second calculation question. If Ludmilla has three different pairs of shoes, seven scarves,
and eleven different hats, how many different outfits can she make from those items?
ANSWER: 231
4B. This is a 10-second calculation question. What is 9.5*7.23?
ANSWER: 68.685
5A. Parson Manders carelessly burns down an orphanage, while advising Mrs. Alving about her syphilitic
son, in what 1881 play by Henrik Ibsen?
ANSWER: Ghosts [or Gengangere]
5B. What ecological line, proposed by an early evolutionary theorist, runs between Bali and Lombok in
Indonesia and separates the zones where Asian and Australian animals flourish?
ANSWER: the Wallace line
VHSL States Round 5 Page 4 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6A.This is a 20-second calculation question. What is 3.74?
ANSWER: 187.4161
6B.This is a 20-second calculation question. If a triangle has two angles of 30 and 105 degrees, a side length
of 2*squareroot(2-squareroot(2)) opposite the unknown angle, and another side of length 2, what is the
length of the unknown side?
ANSWER: 2
7A. Henri Bergson's maxim "Think like a man of action, act like a man of thought" makes use of what
literary device, which is named for the Greek letter similar to "X" and consists of arranging words or themes
in an "A, B, B, A" pattern?
ANSWER: chiasmus
7B. A type of gun named for this man is made of glass and fires by igniting a hydrogen-oxygen mixture.
Identify this scientist, who built upon the research of Luigi Galvani to construct the first electric battery in
1800.
ANSWER: Alessandro Giuseppe Antonio Anastasio Volta
8A. What is the English word that most directly translates to "Neko" (NEH-koh) in Japanese, "feles"
(FEY-lace) in Latin, and "gatto" (GOT-oh) in Italian?
ANSWER: "cat"
8B. This onetime Mary Washington student wrote the memoir Resilience about her breast cancer and the
fallout from her husband's affair with Rielle Hunter. Identify this wife of a former Democratic
Vice-Presidential nominee.
ANSWER: Mary Elizabeth Anania Edwards [or Mary Elizabeth Anania; prompt on Edwards]
9A. This is a 30-second calculation question. Suppose you have 256 meters of rope. What is the largest
rectangular area that you can enclose with the rope?
ANSWER: 4,096 square meters
9B. This is a 30-second calculation question. What is 8x5 + 6x4 + 42x3+29x2+55x+35 divided by 2x2+5?
ANSWER:

4x3+3x2+11x+7

10A. Transpiration from plants, percolation through the soil, and the seasonal melting of glaciers are all part
of what geologic cycle?
ANSWER: water cycle [or hydrologic cycle]
10B. In Osip Mandelstam's "Verses on the Unknown Soldier," the uses of "Austerlitz" to mean "the
Napoleonic Wars" and "oysters" to mean "food" are examples of what specific literary device, in which a
part of something represents the whole?
ANSWER: synecdoche (sih-NEK-duh-kee) [do not accept or prompt on "metonymy"]

VHSL States Round 5 Page 5 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL States
Round 5
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups
1. In this writer's first prose work, Lisandro mourns Leonida's death by the Tagus River, Silerio complains
about the loss of Timbrio and Nisida and the poet-shepherd Elicios vies with a richer suitor for the title
figure's love. Berber pirates enslaved this man on his voyage home from fighting against the Turkish navy.
In his magnum opus, the title knight dons a helmet filled with curds before embarking on the Adventure of
the Lion and attacks thirty or more monstrous giants despite Sancho Panza pointing out that the knight's
targets are windmills. For 10 points, name this author of Galatea and Don Quixote de la Mancha.
ANSWER: Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra
063-09-9-05117

2. In one myth, this figure usurped Ophion and Eurynome. This figure sent the dragon Campe to guard
prisoners in Tarturas. This figure's downfall began when he ingested the Omphalos stone. This man castrated
his father with an adamant sickle, and the severed parts created the Erinyes, Meliae, and Gigantes. This
figure ruled until he was dethroned by Zeus, Hades, and Poseidon, whom he had previously attempted to eat.
For 10 points, name this husband of Rhea, the leader of the Titans who overthrew Uranus.
ANSWER: Cronus [accept Kronos; prompt on Saturnus]
026-09-9-05118

3. This man’s brother was John W. Davis’ running mate in the 1924 election. Enemies of this man within
his party were called “Bourbon Democrats.” The founder of a magazine called The Commoner, he resigned
from the Cabinet in protest of the U.S. entering World War I. Besides serving as Wilson’s first Secretary of
State, this man was mocked by Clarence Darrow while serving as a special prosecutor during the Scopes
Trial. For 10 points, name this three-time Democratic presidential nominee who gave the pro-silver “Cross
of Gold” speech in 1896.
ANSWER: William Jennings Bryan
052-09-9-05119

4. Python employs the "duck" way of determining these constructs. C++ can use RTTI to determine these at
runtime as a form of introspection, and C++ uses templates in a similar fashion to "generic" ones.
Programming languages can be classified by having static, dynamic, strong, or weak systems of these. If
built into a language they can be called "primitive," while object-oriented programming allows the
programmer to implement new ones. For 10 points, name these programming constructs which include
characters, bools, integers, floats, and strings.
ANSWER: data types
001-09-9-05120

5. This man wrote that a peer “was not for an age, but for all time!” In one poem, this author begged the title
figure to “drink to me only with thine eyes.” This author created Sir Epicure Mammon for a play about
swindling. That play by this author sees Lovewit’s house occupied by Face and Dol Common. This author
wrote about Mosca plotting to fool Corvino and Corbaccio, who aim to become the titular character’s heir.
For 10 points, name this author of The Alchemist and Volpone.
ANSWER: Ben Jonson
060-09-9-05121

VHSL States Round 5 Page 6 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

6. One class during the rule of this regime included the families of the rulers, known as shinpan
(SHEEN-pahn). This period included a golden age of culture, the Genroku era. The first ruler of this dynasty
established total control of his lands by taking the Osaka castle. That first ruler had earlier won a battle over
Hideyori (hee-deh-YORE-ee) at Sekigahara (seh-kee-gah-HAH-rah). For 10 points, name this Japanese
dynasty forced open by Matthew Perry and the Treaty of Kanegawa, a shogunate started by Ieyasu
(ee-ay-AH-soo) and ended by the Meiji (MAY-jee) Restoration.
ANSWER: Tokugawa shogunate [or Edo period; or Tokugawa bakufu; or Edo bakufu]
023-09-9-05122

7. In the story "University Days," this man wrote about a tackle for the Ohio State football team who was
made eligible for the Illinois game when, after much prodding, he successfully named a mode of
transportation. This man also wrote a story about Mrs. Barrow, a woman who quotes Brooklyn Dodgers
announcer Red Barber's expressions in the story "The Catbird Seat." He also wrote a man who fantacizes
about flying a Navy hydroplane and smoking a cigarette in front of a firing squad in his "secret life." For 10
points, name this American humorist who wrote about Walter Mitty.
ANSWER: James Thurber
030-09-9-05123

8. One candidate for this position threatened to invoke a state law against defamatory political statements
after being accused of wanting to turn women away from emergency rooms. A candidate who lost in the
primary election for this office was Alan Khazei, the founder of the service program CityYear. The primary
winner who defeated Khazei committed a gaffe during the general campaign by claiming Curt Schilling was
a Yankees fan. State attorney general Martha Coakley lost to Republican Scott Brown in a January 2010
special election that, for 10 points, filled what office, that was left vacant by the death of Ted Kennedy?
ANSWER: United States Senator from Massachussetts [accept obvious equivalents such as
Massachusetts Senator; prompt on partial answer]
019-09-9-05124

9. A subplot in this novel sees characters protesting the arrest of a black militant for the “Granny Ripper”
murders. One dream sequence in this novel features villagers walking into the sea while incorrectly
believing it will part for them. This novel opens with two characters falling out of an exploded plane. Those
characters are Indian Muslim actors, who transform into an angel and a devil. For 10 points, name this novel
which caused the Ayatollah to demand to the death of its author, Salman Rushdie, and whose title refers to a
controversial section of the Quran.
ANSWER: The Satanic Verses
052-09-9-05125

10. The Sylvester-Gallai theorem gives a requirement that all items in question are upon only one of these.
These objects are replaced by the idea of a geodesic on a general metric; specifically, in spherical geometry,
these objects are replaced by "great circles." In coordinate geometry, these objects can be specified in
slope-intercept form. Perpendicular ones intersect at an angle of ninety degrees. For 10 points, name this
geometric construct defined by two points.
ANSWER: lines
022-09-9-05126

VHSL States Round 5 Page 7 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

11. This author wrote a novel in which Darryl Van Horne earns the ire of Alexandra Spofford, Jane Smart,
and Sukie Rougemont in the title Rhode Island town. He also wrote a series of novels in which the infant
Rebecca June accidentally drowns in a bathtub. He created a character who works for Charlie Stavros at an
auto dealership. That creation of this author "is rich" and "at rest" in two of his novels, and is a former high
school basketball star who earns his nickname by sticking out his front two teeth. For 10 points, name this
author who created "Rabbit" Angstrom in Rabbit, Run.
ANSWER: John Hoyer Updike
026-09-9-05127

12. Blogs it hosts include "Evaluations," started in December 2009. Books by its current contributors include
a study of "an elite based on brainpower," Bobos in Paradise. Another of its writers published The Greatest
Story Ever Sold about the deceptions of the Bush Administration. In addition to David Brooks and Frank
Rich, its weekly writers include Gail Collins, Ross Douthat (DOW-that), and Maureen Dowd. For 10 points,
name this newspaper, whose op-ed page features the weekly stylings of Paul Krugman and Thomas
Friedman.
ANSWER: The New York Times [or New York Times op-ed page or equivalents; or NYT]
062-09-9-05128

13. This navy experienced great success during the second "happy time." It earlier deployed the gunboat
Panther to the Moroccan port of Agadir. This navy lost the Battle of the River Plate when the Achilles
defeated the pocket battle ship Admiral Graf Spee in the Rio de la Plata. This navy introduced the “Wolf
Pack” strategy to combat British convoys, and it was this navy’s destruction of the Lusitania that helped
spark American involvement in World War I. For 10 points, name this navy that was commanded by
Admiral Doenitz and employed U-boats.
ANSWER: German navy [or Deutschland]
015-09-9-05129

14. The Czochralski (cho-KROLL-skee) technique is a way of synthetically making these. The intercepts of
the axes of the structure of these can be used to determine their Miller indices, and fourteen structures named
for Bravais (bruh-VAY) can be used to describe these. The packing factor of these indicates the percent of
space used by matter. Their structure can be classified using terms like orthorhombic (OR-tho-ROM-bick),
monoclinic, and face-centered cubic. For 10 points, name these solids made of repeating patterns of atoms or
molecules, examples of which include ice and quartz.
ANSWER: crystals [prompt on lattices; accept crystal lattices]
001-09-9-05130

15. One of these actions was completed after the victory of the Confederation of Targowica
(TAR-go-VEE-kah), which also undid the Third of May Constitution. Another one of these actions brought
an end to the actions of the Bar Confederation. The third one of these actions was preceded by an uprising
led by Tadeusz Kosciuszko (tah-DOZSH kahs-YOUS-koh) in 1794. The first was conducted by Maria
Theresa, Catherine the Great, and Frederick the Great. For 10 points, name these events of the eighteenth
century that gave to Austria, Prussia, and Russia land from a neighboring country with a capital at Warsaw.
ANSWER: partitions of Poland [or equivalents; or partitions of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth;
or second partitioning of Poland or equivalents until "Bar Confederation" is read]
023-09-9-05131

VHSL States Round 5 Page 8 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

VHSL States
Round 5
Tiebreaker Questions
1. This composer wrote four ballades for piano, a style of composition he developed. He composed
twenty-four preludes, including one called "Raindrop," and the "Revolutionary" etude. Among his works are
"Heroic" and "Military" examples of a genre from his home country. His works include many mazurkas and
polonaises. For 10 points, name this Polish composer of the "Minute" Waltz.
ANSWER: Frédéric François Chopin [or Fryderyck Franciczek Szopen]
062-09-9-05132

2. Cajal (kuh-HALL) bodies in this structure contain scaRNAs, which direct post-transcriptional
modifications of another type of RNA unique to this structure. Transport into and out of this organelle is
dependent on a GTPase called Ran. Importins and exportins move proteins across this organelle's membrane.
A smaller organelle within this one is the site of ribosome (RYE-bo-some) production. This organelle is
surrounded by a membrane known as its "envelope," which breaks down and disintegrates during prophase.
For 10 points, name this organelle that contains much of a cell's genetic material.
ANSWER: cell nucleus
026-09-9-05133

3. This character hires the governess Mrs. Younge to care for his sister. This character reveals that his sister
Georgiana was seduced by Mr. Wickham in a letter apologizing for his haughty proposal. This nephew of
Catherine de Bourgh owns the Derbyshire estate of Pemberly and is a good friend of Mr. Bingley. His
pursuit is outlined in the first line of the book in which he appears, which claims that "a single man in
possession of a good fortune must be in want of a wife." For 10 points, name this character who marries
Elizabeth Bennett at the end of Jane Austen's Pride and Prejudice.
ANSWER: Fitzwilliam Darcy [accept Mr. Darcy]
045-09-9-05134

4. This man's argument that forms exist independently of the objects that possess them is refuted by the title
character in the Parmenides. This character teaches a slave to perform a mathematical problem during a
discussion of virtue in the Meno. He claimed "the unexamined life is not worth living" at a trial where he
refused to admit to "corrupting the youth," according to the Apology. In the Crito, this man refused to escape
from his conviction of death. For 10 points, name this Athenian philosopher who was used as a character in
the dialogues of his student Plato.
ANSWER: Socrates [do not accept "Plato"]
027-09-9-05135

5. The Harris Matrix makes use of the laws of this scientific field. This field was advanced by the laws of
Nicholas Steno, who theorized that assuming original horizontality and lateral continuity were important in
this field. Terms in this field include "anticline" and "sincline." The first work in this field was the Law of
Superposition, which assumed that the oldest material was on the bottom and the youngest material was on
top. The iridium-rich K-T boundary was discovered using this discipline. For 10 points, name this branch of
geology, the study of layers of rock.
ANSWER: stratigraphy [prompt on geology]
026-09-9-05136

VHSL States Round 5 Page 9 of 9
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only.

