1996 Maryland High School Invitational Tournament
Round 5

Letter Round
10 points if correct, 10 points off for an incorrect answer
All answers begin with the letter "A"

1.  This element number 13 is mined from the mineral bauxite
Answer:  _Aluminum_
2.  Son of Phillip II of Macedon, he conquered Greece, Egypt, and Persia
before his death at the age of 33.
Answer:  _Alexander the Great_
3.  This author created the character George Willard in his _Winesburg, Ohio_.
Answer:  Sherwood _Anderson_
4.  Scat singing and improvisational Jazz were introduced by this New
Orleans Trumpet Player nicknamed "Satchmo".
Answer:  Louis _Armstrong_
5.  Bikini, a circle of coral reefs surrounding a central lagoon, is this
type of land formation
Answer:  _Atoll_
6.  _Animal Farm_ is this type of work, in which characters and actions
symbolize an underlying meaning  
Answer:  _Allegory_ or _Allegorical_
7.  This Syracusan mathematician discovered the principle of displacement of water
Answer: _Archimedes_
8.  Spanish for "pelican", this prison in San Francisco Bay closed in 1963
Answer:  _Alcatraz_

Untimed Individual Round
Correct answers are worth 20 points. There is no penalty for an incorrect answer.

Team 1

1. VISUAL: THE ADMIRAL HATES LAND
Hidden in these words is the name of what Croatian physicist who lent his name to a unit of magnetic flux 
density?
Answer: Nikola _Tesla_

2. ALLOTROPIC, alimentary, alkaline
Which of these adjectives refers to a substance with two or more different chemical or crystal forms?

3. Io, IAPETUS, Callisto
Which of these satellites is not a moon of Jupiter?

4. Ross Perot did not win any electoral votes, but he still gained 8% of the vote. Name both his party and 
his running mate.
Answer: _Reform_ party and Dan _Choate_

5. Alabama, Alaska, Arizona
Arrange these states according to area from largest to smallest.
Answer: Alaska, Arizona, Alabama

6. "The normal objective of my thought affords no insight into the dark places of human will and feeling." 
Name the physicist who said this, discoverer of the photoelectric effect.
Answer: Albert _Einstein_

Team 2

1. VISUAL: I OFFER MILLION DOLLAR REWARD 
Hidden in this phrase is the name of what Italian physicist who constructed the first American nuclear 
reactor at the University of Chicago?
Answer: Enrico _Fermi_

2. asymptote, astyanax, AZIMUTH
Which of these terms refers to horizontal direction expressed as the angular distance between the direction 
of a fixed point and the direction of the object?

3. Triton, Nereid, OBERON
Which of these satellites is not a moon of Neptune?

4. Name both the environmentally conscious anti-corporation party was on the Presidential ballot in about 
25 states this year and the party's presidential nominee, a famous consumer advocate.
Answer: _Green_ party and Ralph _Nader_

5. Afghanistan, Andorra, Azerbaijan
Arrange these countries according to area from largest to smallest.
Answer: Afghanistan, Azerbaijan, Andorra

6. "O Diamond! Diamond! Thou little knowest the mischief done!" Name the 17th century scientist 
responsible for the three laws of gravitation and calculus who said this to his dog after it knocked down a 
candle that set fire to some papers.
Answer: Isaac _Newton_

Category Round
10 points if correct, 10 points off for an incorrect answer

Composers
Given a work of music, give the composer.

1. Rhapsody in Blue
Answer: George GERSHWIN
2. 1812 Overture
Answer: Peter TCHAIKOVSKY
3. Samson and Delilah and Danse Macabre
Answer: Camille _Saint-Saens_
4. Aida, La Traviata
Answer: Giuseppe VERDI
5. Madame Butterfly, La Boheme
Answer: Giacomo PUCCINI
6. Stars and Stripes Forever
Answer: John Philip SOUSA
7. Die Fledermaus, Blue Danube Waltz
Answer: Johann STRAUSS, Jr.
8. Treemonisha and Maple Leaf Rag
Answer: Scott _Joplin_
9. Sorcerer's Apprentice
Answer: Paul _Dukas_
10. Thus Spake Zarathrustra
Answer: Richard STRAUSS

Timed Round
Correct answers are worth 20 points. There is no penalty for an incorrect answer. If a team answers all 
eight questions, it will receive a 25 point bonus.
Each team has 80 seconds to answer their eight questions.

Team 1

1.Owned by Ecuador, what islands are known for their tortoises, penguins, and finches which were 
investigated by Charles Darwin?
Answer: GALAPAGOS Islands

2.George Clooney will replace Val Kilmer as what caped superhero in a new movie which will begin 
filming in 1997?
Answer: BATMAN

3."Wild Beasts" was the meaning of the word used to describe this group of artists of what art movement 
whose leading painter was Matisse?
Answer: FAUVISM

4.Choice: Which of the following is not a genus of bacteria?
Streptococcus, BACTERIOPHAGE, Clostridium

5.What woman became the first female in Congress when she joined the House
of Representatives as a Republican in 1917?
Answer: Jeaneatte RANKIN 

6. _The Enormous Room_ is a novel by what American poet, known for his eccentric use of typography?
Answer: Edward Estlin CUMMINGS_

7.MATH QUESTION
(2,5)
(-1,3)
What is the slope of a line that goes through these two points?
Answer: 2/3

8.Called "The Snow King", this king won the battle of Lutzen against Wallenstein but was mortally 
wounded. Name this 17th century king of Sweden.
Answer: GUSTAVUS ADOLPHUS or GUSTAVUS II

Team 2
1.Although it was actually named after dogs on the island, what group of islands owned by Spain shares 
its name with what type of bird of which Tweety is an example?
Answer: CANARY Islands

2.Leslie Nielsen will begin filming of a new movie about what extremely near-sighted Elmer Fudd look-a-
like cartoon character in the spring of 1997.
Answer: MR MAGOO

3."Irregularly shaped Pearl" was the meaning of a type of art characterized by excessive ornateness whose 
most famous artists were Gianlorenzo Bernini and Caravaggio?
Answer: BAROQUE

4.Choice: Which of the following does not have a double membrane?
Endoplasmic Reticulum, Mitochondria, LYSOSOME
   
5.On April 4,1983, what astronaut became the first U.S. woman in space
when she went on the _Challenger_? 
Answer: Sally RIDE

6. John Gunther took the title of his _Death Be Not Proud_ from a sonnet by what English metaphysical 
poet of "Twicknam Garden" and  "Go and Catch a Falling Star"?
Answer: John DONNE

7.MATH QUESTION
X^2 - 6X + 9 = 0
What is the geometric mean of the roots of this polynomial?
Answer: 3

8. Called the "Spider King," which French king married the daughter of King James I and succeeded to 
the throne after the death of his father, Charles VII in 1461?
Answer: LOUIS XI

Grab Bag Round
A correct answer is worth 20 points. 20 points will be deducted for an incorrect answer.

1. What mineral used in cosmetics occurs in tabular crystals and in the impure form soapstone, and ranks 
softest on Mohs' scale of hardness?
Answer:  _Talc_

2. What Englishman and member of the Bloomsbury group wrote only six novels, including _Maurice_ 
and _Where Angels Fear to Tread_, who is best known for his 1924 _A Passage to India_?
Answer: Edward Morgan _Forster_

3. They retreated to the Welsh village of Bron-y-Aur and worked on material for their album _Physical 
Graffiti_. They had a productive career until the death of their drummer John Bonham, although other 
members Jimmy Page and Robert Plant have recently toured.  Name this band who recorded "Stairway to 
Heaven."
Answer:  _Led Zeppelin_

4. In the literary source, she seldom bathed, had but one eye, and worked in a cigarette factory.  Name this 
woman who is caught in a love triangle with Don Jose and the toreador Escamillo--the subject of an opera 
by Georges Bizet.
Answer:  _Carmen_

5. Doc Daneeka, Milo Minderbinder, and Captain Yossarian are all characters in what 1961 novel about 
World War II, written by Joseph Heller?
Answer: _Catch-22_

6. So named because they contain a carboxyl group, glycine, histidine, serine, and phenylalanine are all 
types of what building block of proteins?
Answer: _amino_ acids

7. He was an assistant coach under John Robinson with the L.A. Rams and offensive coordinator for 
Jimmy Johnson in Dallas.  Name this current coach of the Washington Redskins.
Answer:  Norv _Turner_

8. Elia might sound like a biblical name, but it was the pseudonym of what English essayist who 
collaborated with his sister Mary on the _Tales from Shakespeare_?
Answer: Charles _Lamb_

9. In 1529 he succeeded Cardinal Wolsey as Lord Chancellor of England but later refused to take the Oath 
of Supremacy issued by his king Henry VIII. Name this man who was executed in 1535.
Answer:  Sir Thomas _More_

10. His work was met with violent opposition until seventy physicians and surgeons in London signed a 
declaration of their confidence in it. Who is this man who in 1796 vaccinated an eight year-old boy with 
cowpox and smallpox?
Answer: Edward _Jenner_

11. The first resulted in the cession of Sicily to Rome.  In the second the Romans lost at Cannae, but 
Scipio Africanus managed to defeat Hannibal at Zama.  And the last ended in the destruction of Cathage.  
Name the series of wars fought between Rome and Carthage.
Answer:  The _Punic Wars_

12. Episodes include the stealing of the cattle of Helios, the journey to the land of the Lotus-Eaters, and 
the blinding of the Cyclops Polyphemus. Name this epic poem by Homer.
Answer:  The _Odyssey_

13. If a sphere has radius 5, what is the surface area of the sphere?
Answer:  100 pi

14. Founded in 1919 by Michael Collins, what paramilitary wing of the Sinn Fein (SHIN FAIN), 
attempted to kill members of the UK cabinet during the Conservative Party Conference in Brighton in 
1984?
Answer:  The _Irish Republican Army_ or _IRA_

15. Although his name sounds like an aviation term, it is synonymous with one who "washes his hands of 
the matter." Name this procurator of Judea before whom Jesus was tried.
Answer:  Pontius _Pilate_


